
                TUMBLING FOR AMATEURS TABLE OF CONTENTS


        TUMBLING FOR AMATEURS
          TUMBLING FOR AMATEURS
          PRIMARY TUMBLING
          ADVANCED TUMBLING
          COMBINATION TUMBLING
          EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS OF PROMINENT PHYSICAL DIRECTORS




[Illustration]

                         A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
                       MAINTAIN THEIR OWN HOUSES
                          FOR DISTRIBUTING THE
                                SPALDING
                            COMPLETE LINE OF
                             ATHLETIC GOODS
                        IN THE FOLLOWING CITIES


                    NEW YORK
                      Downtown—
                        124–128 Nassau St.
                      Uptown—
                        29–33 West 42d St.
                    NEWARK, N. J.
                        845 Broad Street
                    BOSTON, MASS.
                        141 Federal Street

                    BUFFALO, N. Y.
                        611 Main Street
                    SYRACUSE, N. Y.
                        University Block
                    PITTSBURG, PA.
                        439 Wood Street

                    PHILADELPHIA, PA.
                        1210 Chestnut Street
                    BALTIMORE, MD.
                        208 East Baltimore St.
                    WASHINGTON, D. C.
                        709 14th St., N.W.

                    LONDON, ENG.
                      Three Stores
                        317–318, High Holborn, W.C.
                        78, Cheapside
                      West End Branch
                        29, Haymarket, S.W.

                    CHICAGO
                        147–148 Wabash Ave.
                    ST. LOUIS, MO.
                        418 North Seventh St.
                    KANSAS CITY, MO.
                        1120 Grand Ave.
                    DENVER, COL.
                        1616 Arapahoe St.

                    CINCINNATI, O.
                        119 East Fifth St.
                    CLEVELAND, O.
                        741 Euclid Ave.
                    COLUMBUS, O.
                        191 South High St.

                    DETROIT, MICH.
                        264 Woodward Ave.
                    LOUISVILLE, KY.
                        328 West Jefferson St.
                    INDIANAPOLIS, IND.
                        211 Massachusetts Ave.

                    BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
                        57, New Street
                    MANCHESTER, ENG.
                        4, Oxford St. and
                        1, Lower Moseley St.
                    EDINBURGH, SCOT.
                        3 South Charlotte St.
                          (_Cor._ Princes St.)

                    SAN FRANCISCO
                        156–158 Geary St.
                    SEATTLE, WASH.
                        711 Second Ave.
                    LOS ANGELES, CAL.
                        435 South Spring St.

                    MILWAUKEE, WIS.
                        379 East Water St.
                    MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.
                        44 Seventh St., South
                    ST. PAUL, MINN.
                        386 Minnesota St.

                    ATLANTA, GA.
                        74 N. Broad Street
                    NEW ORLEANS, LA.
                        140 Carondelet St.
                    DALLAS, TEX.
                        366 Commerce St.

                    MONTREAL, P. Q.
                        443 St. James St.
                    TORONTO, ONT.
                        189 Yonge St.
                    SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
                        228 Clarence St.

 Communications directed to A. G. SPALDING & BROS., at any of the above
               addresses, will receive prompt attention.


                    THE SPALDING TRADE MARK IS
                    REGISTERED IN THE UNITED STATES
                    PATENT OFFICE, AND WE HAVE ALSO
                    PROTECTED OUR INTERESTS BY 39
                    REGISTRATIONS IN FOREIGN
                    COUNTRIES. INFRINGERS ARE
                    WARNED.


   THE SPALDING TRADE-MARK IS THE FOUNDATION OF THE SPALDING BUSINESS




                      Spalding’s Athletic Library


[Illustration: A. G. SPALDING]

Anticipating the present tendency of the American people toward a
healthful method of living and enjoyment, Spalding’s Athletic Library
was established in 1892 for the purpose of encouraging athletics in
every form, not only by publishing the official rules and records
pertaining to the various pastimes, but also by instructing, until
to-day Spalding’s Athletic Library is unique in its own particular field
and has been conceded the greatest educational series on athletic and
physical training subjects that has ever been compiled.

The publication of a distinct series of books devoted to athletic sports
and pastimes and designed to occupy the premier place in America in its
class was an early idea of Mr. A. G. Spalding, who was one of the first
in America to publish a handbook devoted to athletic sports, Spalding’s
Official Base Ball Guide being the initial number, which was followed at
intervals with other handbooks on the sports prominent in the ’70s.

Spalding’s Athletic Library has had the advice and counsel of Mr. A. G.
Spalding in all of its undertakings, and particularly in all books
devoted to the national game. This applies especially to Spalding’s
Official Base Ball Guide and Spalding’s Official Base Ball Record, both
of which receive the personal attention of Mr. A. G. Spalding, owing to
his early connection with the game as the leading pitcher of the
champion Boston and Chicago teams of 1872–76. His interest does not
stop, however, with matters pertaining to base ball; there is not a
sport that Mr. Spalding does not make it his business to become familiar
with, and that the Library will always maintain its premier place, with
Mr. Spalding’s able counsel at hand, goes without saying.

The entire series since the issue of the first number has been under the
direct personal supervision of Mr. James E. Sullivan, President of the
American Sports Publishing Company, and the total series of consecutive
numbers reach an aggregate of considerably over three hundred, included
in which are many “annuals,” that really constitute the history of their
particular sport in America year by year, back copies of which are even
now eagerly sought for, constituting as they do the really first
authentic records of events and official rules that have ever been
consecutively compiled.

When Spalding’s Athletic Library was founded, seventeen years ago, track
and field athletics were practically unknown outside the larger colleges
and a few athletic clubs in the leading cities, which gave occasional
meets, when an entry list of 250 competitors was a subject of comment;
golf was known only by a comparatively few persons; lawn tennis had some
vogue and base ball was practically the only established field sport,
and that in a professional way; basket ball had just been invented;
athletics for the schoolboy—and schoolgirl—were almost unknown, and an
advocate of class contests in athletics in the schools could not get a
hearing. To-day we find the greatest body of athletes in the world is
the Public Schools Athletic League of Greater New York, which has had an
entry list at its annual games of over two thousand, and in whose
“elementary series” in base ball last year 106 schools competed for the
trophy emblematic of the championship.

While Spalding’s Athletic Library cannot claim that the rapid growth of
athletics in this country is due to it solely, the fact cannot be denied
that the books have had a great deal to do with its encouragement, by
printing the official rules and instructions for playing the various
games at a nominal price, within the reach of everyone, with the sole
object that its series might be complete and the one place where a
person could look with absolute certainty for the particular book in
which he might be interested.

In selecting the editors and writers for the various books, the leading
authority in his particular line has been obtained, with the result that
no collection of books on athletic subjects can compare with Spalding’s
Athletic Library for the prominence of the various authors and their
ability to present their subjects in a thorough and practical manner.

A short sketch of a few of those who have edited some of the leading
numbers of Spalding’s Athletic Library is given herewith:


                           JAMES E. SULLIVAN

[Illustration]

President American Sports Publishing Company; entered the publishing
house of Frank Leslie in 1878, and has been connected continuously with
the publishing business since then and also as athletic editor of
various New York papers; was a competing athlete; one of the organizers
of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States; has been actively on
its board of governors since its organization until the present time,
and President for two successive terms; has attended every championship
meeting in America since 1879 and has officiated in some capacity in
connection with American amateur championships track and field games for
nearly twenty-five years; assistant American director Olympic Games,
Paris, 1900; director Pan-American Exposition athletic department, 1901;
chief department physical culture Louisiana Purchase Exposition, St.
Louis, 1904; secretary American Committee Olympic Games, at Athens,
1906; honorary director of Athletics at Jamestown Exposition, 1907;
secretary American Committee Olympic Games, at London, 1908; member of
the Pastime A. C., New York: honorary member Missouri A. C., St. Louis;
honorary member Olympic A. C., San Francisco; ex-president Pastime A.
C., New Jersey A. C., Knickerbocker A. C.; president Metropolitan
Association of the A. A. U. for fifteen years; president Outdoor
Recreation League; with Dr. Luther H. Gulick organized the Public
Schools Athletic League of New York, and is now chairman of its games
committee and member executive committee; was a pioneer in playground
work and one of the organizers of the Outdoor Recreation League of New
York; appointed by President Roosevelt as special commissioner to the
Olympic Games at Athens, 1906, and decorated by King George I. of the
Hellenes (Greece) for his services in connection with the Olympic Games;
appointed special commissioner by President Roosevelt to the Olympic
Games at London, 1908; appointed by Mayor McClellan, 1908, as member of
the Board of Education of Greater New York.


                              WALTER CAMP

[Illustration]

For quarter of a century Mr. Walter Camp of Yale has occupied a leading
position in college athletics. It is immaterial what organization is
suggested for college athletics, or for the betterment of conditions,
insofar as college athletics is concerned, Mr. Camp has always played an
important part in its conferences, and the great interest in and high
plane of college sport to-day, are undoubtedly due more to Mr. Camp than
to any other individual. Mr. Camp has probably written more on college
athletics than any other writer and the leading papers and magazines of
America are always anxious to secure his expert opinion on foot ball,
track and field athletics, base ball and rowing. Mr. Camp has grown up
with Yale athletics and is a part of Yale’s remarkable athletic system.
While he has been designated as the “Father of Foot Ball,” it is a well
known fact that during his college career Mr. Camp was regarded as one
of the best players that ever represented Yale on the base ball field,
so when we hear of Walter Camp as a foot ball expert we must also
remember his remarkable knowledge of the game of base ball, of which he
is a great admirer. Mr. Camp has edited Spalding’s Official Foot Ball
Guide since it was first published, and also the Spalding Athletic
Library book on How to Play Foot Ball. There is certainly no man in
American college life better qualified to write for Spalding’s Athletic
Library than Mr. Camp.


                        DR. LUTHER HALSEY GULICK

[Illustration]

The leading exponent of physical training in America; one who has worked
hard to impress the value of physical training in the schools; when
physical training was combined with education at the St. Louis
Exposition in 1904 Dr. Gulick played an important part in that congress;
he received several awards for his good work and had many honors
conferred upon him; he is the author of a great many books on the
subject; it was Dr. Gulick, who, acting on the suggestion of James E.
Sullivan, organized the Public Schools Athletic League of Greater New
York, and was its first Secretary; Dr. Gulick was also for several years
Director of Physical Training in the public schools of Greater New York,
resigning the position to assume the Presidency of the Playground
Association of America. Dr. Gulick is an authority on all subjects
pertaining to physical training and the study of the child.


                             JOHN B. FOSTER

[Illustration]

Successor to the late Henry Chadwick (“Father of Base Ball”) as editor
of Spalding’s Official Base Ball Guide; sporting editor of the New York
Evening Telegram; has been in the newspaper business for many years and
is recognized throughout America as a leading writer on the national
game; a staunch supporter of organized base ball, his pen has always
been used for the betterment of the game.


                              TIM MURNANE

[Illustration]

Base Ball editor of the Boston Globe and President of the New England
League of Base Ball Clubs; one of the best known base ball men of the
country; known from coast to coast; is a keen follower of the game and
prominent in all its councils; nearly half a century ago was one of
America’s foremost players: knows the game thoroughly and writes from
the point of view both of player and an official.


                         HARRY PHILIP BURCHELL

[Illustration]

Sporting editor of the New York Times; graduate of the University of
Pennsylvania; editor of Spalding’s Official Lawn Tennis Annual; is an
authority on the game; follows the movements of the players minutely and
understands not only tennis but all other subjects that can be classed
as athletics; no one is better qualified to edit this book than Mr.
Burchell.


                           GEORGE T. HEPBRON

[Illustration]

Former Young Men’s Christian Association director; for many years an
official of the Athletic League of Young Men’s Christian Associations of
North America; was connected with Dr. Luther H. Gulick in Young Men’s
Christian Association work for over twelve years; became identified with
basket ball when it was in its infancy and has followed it since, being
recognized as the leading exponent of the official rules; succeeded Dr.
Gulick as editor of the Official Basket Ball Guide and also editor of
the Spalding Athletic Library book on How to Play Basket Ball.


                            JAMES S. MITCHEL

[Illustration]

Former champion weight thrower; holder of numerous records, and is the
winner of more championships than any other individual in the history of
sport; Mr. Mitchel is a close student of athletics and well qualified to
write upon any topic connected with athletic sport; has been for years
on the staff of the New York Sun.


                           MICHAEL C. MURPHY

[Illustration]

The world’s most famous athletic trainer; the champion athletes that he
has developed for track and field sports, foot ball and base ball
fields, would run into thousands; he became famous when at Yale
University and has been particularly successful in developing what might
be termed championship teams; his rare good judgment has placed him in
an enviable position in the athletic world now with the University of
Pennsylvania: during his career has trained only at two colleges and one
athletic club, Yale and the University of Pennsylvania and Detroit
Athletic Club: his most recent triumph was that of training the famous
American team of athletes that swept the field at the Olympic Games of
1908 at London.


                          DR. C. WARD CRAMPTON

[Illustration]

Succeeded Dr. Gulick as director of physical training in the schools of
Greater New York: as secretary of the Public Schools Athletic League is
at the head of the most remarkable organization of its kind in the
world; is a practical athlete and gymnast himself, and has been for
years connected with the physical training system in the schools of
Greater New York, having had charge of the High School of Commerce.


                          DR. GEORGE J. FISHER

[Illustration]

Has been connected with Y. M. C. A. work for many years as physical
director at Cincinnati and Brooklyn, where he made such a high
reputation as organizer that he was chosen to succeed Dr. Luther H.
Gulick as Secretary of the Athletic League of Y. M. C. A.’s of North
America, when the latter resigned to take charge of the physical
training in the Public Schools of Greater New York.


                            DR. GEORGE ORTON

[Illustration]

On athletics, college athletics, particularly track and field, foot
ball, soccer foot ball, and training of the youth, it would be hard to
find one better qualified than Dr. Orton; has had the necessary athletic
experience and the ability to impart that experience intelligently to
the youth of the land; for years was the American, British and Canadian
champion runner.


                          FREDERICK R. TOOMBS

[Illustration]

A well known authority on skating, rowing, boxing, racquets, and other
athletic sports; was sporting editor of American Press Association, New
York; dramatic editor; is a lawyer and has served several terms as a
member of Assembly of the Legislature of the State of New York; has
written several novels and historical works.


                              R. L. WELCH

[Illustration]

A resident of Chicago; the popularity of indoor base ball is chiefly due
to his efforts; a player himself of no mean ability; a first-class
organizer; he has followed the game of indoor base ball from its
inception.


                         DR. HENRY S. ANDERSON

[Illustration]

Has been connected with Yale University for years and is a recognized
authority on gymnastics; is admitted to be one of the leading
authorities in America on gymnastic subjects; is the author of many
books on physical training.


                           CHARLES M. DANIELS

[Illustration]

Just the man to write an authoritative book on swimming; the fastest
swimmer the world has ever known; member New York Athletic Club swimming
team and an Olympic champion at Athens in 1906 and London, 1908. In his
book on Swimming, Champion Daniels describes just the methods one must
use to become an expert swimmer.


                             GUSTAVE BOJUS

[Illustration]

Mr. Bojus is most thoroughly qualified to write intelligently on all
subjects pertaining to gymnastics and athletics; in his day one of
America’s most famous amateur athletes; has competed successfully in
gymnastics and many other sports for the New York Turn Verein; for
twenty years he has been prominent in teaching gymnastics and athletics;
was responsible for the famous gymnastic championship teams of Columbia
University; now with the Jersey City high schools.


                            CHARLES JACOBUS

[Illustration]

Admitted to be the “Father of Roque;” one of America’s most expert
players, winning the Olympic Championship at St. Louis in 1904; an
ardent supporter of the game and follows it minutely, and much of the
success of roque is due to his untiring efforts; certainly there is no
one better qualified to write on this subject than Mr. Jacobus.


                            DR. E. B. WARMAN

[Illustration]

Well known as a physical training expert; was probably one of the first
to enter the field and is the author of many books on the subject;
lectures extensively each year all over the country.


                              W. J. CROMIE

[Illustration]

Now with the University of Pennsylvania; was formerly a Y. M. C. A.
physical director; a keen student of all gymnastic matters; the author
of many books on subjects pertaining to physical training.


                              G. M. MARTIN

[Illustration]

By profession a physical director of the Young Men’s Christian
Association; a close student of all things gymnastic, and games for the
classes in the gymnasium or clubs.


                              PROF. SENAC

[Illustration]

A leader in the fencing world; has maintained a fencing school in New
York for years and developed a great many champions; understands the
science of fencing thoroughly and the benefits to be derived therefrom.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                       SPALDING ATHLETIC LIBRARY

 Giving the Titles of all Spalding Athletic Library Books now in print,
                      grouped for ready reference.


                       SPALDING OFFICIAL ANNUALS

 No.  1   Spalding’s Official Base Ball Guide

 No.  1A  Spalding’s Official Base Ball Record

 No.  2   Spalding’s Official Foot Ball Guide

 No.  2A  Spalding’s Official Soccer Foot Ball Guide

 No.  3   Spalding’s Official Cricket Guide

 No.  4   Spalding’s Official Lawn Tennis Annual

 No.  5   Spalding’s Official Golf Guide

 No.  6   Spalding’s Official Ice Hockey Guide

 No.  7   Spalding’s Official Basket Ball Guide

 No.  7A  Spalding’s Official Women’s Basket Ball Guide

 No.  8   Spalding’s Official Lacrosse Guide

 No.  9   Spalding’s Official Indoor Base Ball Guide

 No. 10   Spalding’s Official Roller Polo Guide

 No. 12   Spalding’s Official Athletic Almanac

 No. 12A  Spalding’s Official Athletic Rules


                     Group I.            Base Ball

 No. 1    _Spalding’s Official Base Ball Guide._

 No. 1A   Official Base Ball Record.

 No. 202  How to Play Base Ball.

 No. 223  How to Bat.

 No. 232  How to Run Bases.

 No. 230  How to Pitch.

 No. 229  How to Catch.

 No. 225  How to Play First Base.

 No. 226  How to Play Second Base.

 No. 227  How to Play Third Base.

 No. 228  How to Play Shortstop.

 No. 224  How to Play the Outfield.

 No. 231  How to Organize a Base Ball League.

          How to Organize a Base Ball Club.

          How to Manage a Base Ball Club.

          How to Train a Base Ball Team.

          How to Captain a Base Ball Team.

          How to Umpire a Game.

          Technical Base Ball Terms.

 No. 219  Ready Reckoner of Base Ball Percentages.


                         BASE BALL AUXILIARIES

 No. 336  Minor League Base Ball Guide.

 No. 338  Official Book National League of Prof. Base Ball Clubs.

 No. 340  Official Handbook National Playground Ball Assn.


                     Group II.            Foot Ball

 No. 2    _Spalding’s Official Foot Ball Guide_.

 No. 334  Code of the Foot Ball Rules.

 No. 324  How to Play Foot Ball.

 No. 2A   _Spalding’s Official Soccer Foot Ball Guide._

 No. 286  How to Play Soccer.

 No. 335  English Rugby.


                          FOOT BALL AUXILIARY

 No. 332  Spalding’s Official Canadian Foot Ball Guide.


                 Group III.                    Cricket

 No. 3    _Spalding’s Official Cricket Guide._

 No. 277  Cricket and How to Play It.


                     Group IV.          Lawn Tennis

 No. 4    _Spalding’s Official Lawn Tennis Annual._

 No. 157  How to Play Lawn Tennis.

 No. 279  Strokes and Science of Lawn Tennis.


                    Group V.                   Golf

 No.   5  _Spalding’s Official Golf Guide_.

 No. 276  How to Play Golf.


                      Group VI.             Hockey

 No. 6    _Spalding’s Official Ice Hockey Guide._

 No. 304  How to Play Ice Hockey.

 No. 154  Field Hockey.

          Lawn Hockey.

 No. 188  Parlor Hockey.

          Garden Hockey.

 No. 180  Ring Hockey.


                            HOCKEY AUXILIARY

 No. 256  Official Handbook Ontario Hockey Association.


                 Group VII.                Basket Ball

 No.   7  _Spalding’s Official Basket Ball Guide._

 No.  7A  _Spalding’s Official Women’s Ball Guide._

 No. 193  How to Play Basket Ball.


                         BASKET BALL AUXILIARY

 No. 323  Official Collegiate Basket Ball Handbook.


                         Group VIII.  Lacrosse

 No. 8    _Spalding’s Official Lacrosse Guide._

 No. 201  How to Play Lacrosse.


                       Group IX. Indoor Base Ball

 No. 9    _Spalding’s Official Indoor Base Ball Guide._


                             Group X.  Polo

 No. 10   _Spalding’s Official Roller Polo Guide._

 No. 129  Water Polo.

 No. 199  Equestrian Polo.


                     Group XI. Miscellaneous Games

 No. 248  Archery.

 No. 138  Croquet.

 No. 271  Roque.

          Racquets.

 No. 194  Squash-Racquets.

          Court Tennis.

 No. 13   Hand Ball.

 No. 167  Quoits.

 No. 170  Push Ball.

 No. 14   Curling.

 No. 207  Lawn Bowls.

 No. 188  Lawn Games.

 No. 189  Children’s Games.

 No. 341  How to Bowl.


                         Group XII.  Athletics

 No. 12   _Spalding’s Official Athletic Almanac._

 No. 12A  _Spalding’s Official Athletic Rules._

 No. 27   College Athletics.

 No. 182  All Around Athletics.

 No. 156  Athletes’ Guide.

 No. 87   Athletic Primer.

 No. 273  Olympic Games at Athens, 1905

 No. 252  How to Sprint.

 No. 255  How to Run 100 Yards.

 No. 174  Distance and Cross-Country Running.

 No. 259  How to Become a Weight Thrower.

 No. 55   Official Sporting Rules.

 No. 246  Athletic Training for Schoolboys.

 No. 317  Marathon Running.

 No. 331  Schoolyard Athletics.


                          ATHLETIC AUXILIARIES

 No. 339  Intercollegiate Official Handbook.

 No. 302  Y. M. C. A. Official Handbook.

 No. 313  Public Schools Athletic League Official Handbook.

 No. 314  Public Schools Athletic League Official Handbook—Girls’
            Branch.

 No. 308  Official Handbook New York Interscholastic Athletic
            Association.


                    Group XIII.             Athletic
                            Accomplishments

 No. 177  How to Swim.

 No. 296  Speed Swimming.

 No. 128  How to Row.

 No. 209  How to Become a Skater.

 No. 178  How to Train for Bicycling.

 No. 23   Canoeing.

 No. 282  Roller Skating Guide.


                        Group XIV.  Manly Sports

 No. 18   Fencing. (By Breck.)

 No. 162  Boxing.

 No. 165  Fencing. (By Senac.)

 No. 140  Wrestling.

 No. 236  How to Wrestle.

 No. 102  Ground Tumbling.

 No. 233  Jiu Jitsu.

 No. 166  How to Swing Indian Clubs.

 No. 200  Dumb Bell Exercises.

 No. 143  Indian Clubs and Dumb Bells.

 No. 262  Medicine Ball Exercises.

 No. 29   Pulley Weight Exercises.

 No. 191  How to Punch the Bag.

 No. 289  Tumbling for Amateurs.

 No. 326  Professional Wrestling.


                         Group XV.  Gymnastics

 No. 104  Grading of Gymnastic Exercises.

 No. 214  Graded Calisthenics and Dumb Bell Drills.

 No. 254  Barnjum Bar Bell Drill.

 No. 158  Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games.

 No. 124  How to Become a Gymnast.

 No. 287  Fancy Dumb Bell and Marching Drills.

 No. 327  Pyramid Building Without Apparatus.

 No. 328  Exercises on the Parallel Bars.

 No. 329  Pyramid Building with Wands, Chairs and Ladders


                          GYMNASTIC AUXILIARY

 No. 333  Official Handbook I. C. A. A. Gymnasts of America.


                      Group XVI. Physical Culture

 No. 161  Ten Minutes’ Exercise for Busy Men.

 No. 208  Physical Education and Hygiene.

 No. 149  Scientific Physical Training and Care of the Body.

 No. 142  Physical Training Simplified.

 No. 185  Hints on Health.

 No. 213  285 Health Answers.

 No. 238  Muscle Building.

 No. 234  School Tactics and Maze Running.

 No. 261  Tensing Exercises.

 No. 285  Health by Muscular Gymnastics.

 No. 288  Indigestion Treated by Gymnastics.

 No. 290  Get Well: Keep Well.

 No. 325  Twenty-Minute Exercises.

 No. 330  Physical Training for the School and Class Room.

                  *       *       *       *       *

    ANY OF THE ABOVE BOOKS MAILED POSTPAID UPON RECEIPT OF 10 CENTS

------------------------------------------------------------------------


                        Group I.      Base Ball


  No. 1—Spalding’s Official Base Ball Guide.

[Illustration]

The leading Base Ball annual of the country, and the official authority
of the game. Contains the official playing rules, with an explanatory
index of the rules compiled by Mr. A. G. Spalding; pictures of all the
teams in the National, American and minor leagues; reviews of the
season; college Base Ball, and a great deal of interesting information.
Price 10 cents.


  No. 202—How to Play Base Ball.

Edited by Tim Murnane. New and revised edition. Illustrated with
pictures showing how all the various curves and drops are thrown and
portraits of leading players. Price 10 cents.


  No. 223—How to Bat.

There is no better way of becoming a proficient batter than by reading
this book and practising the directions. Numerous illustrations. Price
10 cents.


  No. 232—How to Run the Bases.

This book gives clear and concise directions for excelling as a base
runner; tells when to run and when not to do so; how and when to slide;
team work on the bases; in fact, every point of the game is thoroughly
explained. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 230—How to Pitch.

A new, up-to-date book. Its contents are the practical teaching of men
who have reached the top as pitchers, and who know how to impart a
knowledge of their art. All the big leagues’ pitchers are shown. Price
10 cents.


  No. 229—How to Catch.

Every boy who has hopes of being a clever catcher should read how
well-known players cover their position. Pictures of all the noted
catchers in the big leagues. Price 10 cents.


  No. 225—How to Play First Base.

Illustrated with pictures of all the prominent first basemen. Price 10
cents.


  No. 226—How to Play Second Base.

The ideas of the best second basemen have been incorporated in this book
for the especial benefit of boys who want to know the fine points of
play at this point of the diamond. Price 10 cents.


  No. 227—How to Play Third Base.

Third base is, in some respects, the most important of the infield. All
the points explained. Price 10 cents.


  No. 228—How to Play Shortstop.

Shortstop is one of the hardest positions on the infield to fill, and
quick thought and quick action are necessary for a player who expects to
make good as a shortstop. Illus. Price 10 cents.


  No. 224—How to Play the Outfield.

An invaluable guide for the outfielder. Price 10 cents.


  No. 231—How to Coach; How to Captain a Team; How to Manage a Team; How
     to Umpire; How to Organize a League; Technical Terms of Base Ball.

A useful guide. Price 10 cents.


  No. 210—Ready Reckoner of Base Ball Percentages.

To supply a demand for a book which would show the percentage of clubs
without recourse to the arduous work of figuring, the publishers had
these tables compiled by an expert. Price 10 cents.


                        BASE BALL. AUXILIARIES.


  No. 1A—Spalding’s Official Base Ball Record.

Something new in Base Ball. Contains records of all kinds from the
beginning of the National League and official averages of all
professional organizations for past season. 10 cents.


  No. 319—Minor League Base Ball Guide.

The minors’ own guide. Edited by President T. H. Murnane, of the New
England League. Price 10 cents.


  No. 320—Official Handbook or the National League of Professional Base
     Ball Clubs.

Contains the Constitution, By-Laws, Official Rules, Averages, and
schedule of the National League for the current year, together with list
of club officers and reports of the annual meetings of the League. Price
10 cents.


  No. 321—Official Handbook National Playground Ball Association.

This game is specially adapted for playgrounds, parks, etc., is
spreading rapidly. The book contains a description of the game, rules
and officers. Price 10 cents.


                          Group II. Foot Ball


  No. 2—Spalding’s Official Foot Ball Guide.

[Illustration]

Edited by Walter Camp. Contains the new rules, with diagram of field;
All-America teams as selected by the leading authorities; reviews of the
game from various sections of the country; scores; pictures. Price 10
cents.


  No. 334—Code of the Foot Ball Rules.

This book is meant for the use of Officials, to help them to refresh
their memories before a game and to afford them a quick means of
ascertaining a point during a game. It also gives a ready means of
finding a rule in the Official Rule Book, and is of great help to a
player in studying the Rules. Compiled by C. W. Short, Harvard, 1908.
Price 10 cents.


  No. 324—How to Play Foot Ball.

Edited by Walter Camp, of Yale. Everything that a beginner wants to know
and many points that an expert will be glad to learn. Snapshots of
leading teams and players in action, with comments by Walter Camp. Price
10 cents.


  No. 2A—Spalding’s Official Association Soccer Foot Ball Guide.

[Illustration]

A complete and up-to-date guide to the “Soccer” game in the United
States, containing instructions for playing the game, official rules,
and interesting news from all parts of the country. Illustrated. Price
10 cents.


  No. 280—How to Play Soccer.

How each position should be played, written by the best player in
England in his respective position, and illustrated with full-page
photographs of players in action. Price 10 cents.


                         FOOT BALL AUXILIARIES.


  No. 332—Spalding’s Official Canadian Foot Ball Guide.

The official book of the game in Canada. Price 10 cents.


                           Group III. Cricket


  No. 3—Spalding’s Official Cricket Guide.

[Illustration]

The most complete year book of the same that has ever been published in
America. Reports of special matches, official rules and pictures of all
the leading teams. Price 10 cents.


  No. 277—Cricket; and How to Play it.

By Prince Ranjitsinhji. The game described concisely and illustrated
with full-page pictures posed especially for this book. Price 10 cents.


                         Group IV. Lawn Tennis


  No. 4—Spalding’s Official Lawn Tennis Annual.

[Illustration]

Contents include reports of all important tournaments; official ranking
from 1885 to date; laws of lawn tennis; instructions for handicapping;
decisions on doubtful points; management of tournaments; directory of
clubs; laying out and keeping a court. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 157—How to Play Lawn Tennis.

A complete description of lawn tennis; a lesson for beginners and
directions telling how to make the most important strokes. Illustrated.
Price 10 cents.


  No. 270—Strokes and Science of Lawn Tennis.

By P. A. Vaile, a leading authority on the game in Great Britain. Every
stroke in the game is accurately illustrated and analyzed by the author.
Price 10 cents.


                             Group V. Golf


  No. 5—Spaulding’s Official Golf Guide.

[Illustration]

Contains records of all important tournaments, articles on the game in
various sections of the country, pictures of prominent players, official
playing rules and general items of interest. Price 10 cents.


  No. 270—How to Play Golf.

By James Braid and Harry Vardon, the world’s two greatest players tell
how they play the game, with numerous full-page pictures of them taken
on the links. Price 10 cents.


                            Group VI. Hockey


  No. 6—Spalding’s Official Ice Hockey Guide.

[Illustration]

The official year book of the game. Contains the official rules,
pictures of leading teams and players, records, review of the season,
reports from different sections of the United States and Canada. Price
10 cents.


  No. 304—How to Play Ice Hockey.

Contains a description of the duties of each player. Illustrated. Price
10 cents.


  No. 154—Field Hockey.

Prominent in the sports at Vassar, Smith, Wellesley, Bryn Mawr and other
leading colleges. Price 10 cents.


  No. 188—Lawn Hockey, Parlor Hockey, Garden Hockey.

Containing the rules for each game. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 180—Ring Hockey.

A new game for the gymnasium. Exciting as basket ball. Price 10 cents.


                           HOCKEY AUXILIARY.


  No. 256—Official Handbook of the Ontario Hockey Association.

Contains the official rules of the Association, constitution, rules of
competition, list of officers, and pictures of leading players. Price 10
cents.


                         Group VII. Basket Ball


  No. 7—Spalding’s Official Basket Ball Guide.

[Illustration]

Edited by George T. Hepbron. Contains the revised official rules,
decisions on disputed points, records of prominent teams, reports on the
game from various parts of the country. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 193—How to Play Basket Ball.

By G. T. Hepbron, editor of the Official Basket Ball Guide. Illustrated
with scenes of action. Price 10 cents.


  No. 318—Official Basket Ball Guide for Women.

Edited by Miss Senda Berenson, of Smith College. Contains the official
playing rules and special articles on the game by prominent authorities.
Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


                         BASKET BALL AUXILIARY.


  No. 323—Collegiate Basket Ball Handbook.

The official publication of the Collegiate Basket Ball Association.
Contains the official rules, records, All-America selections, reviews,
and pictures. Edited by H. A. Fisher, of Columbia. Price 10 cents.


                          Group VIII. Bowling


  No. 8—Spalding’s Official Bowling Guide.

[Illustration]

The contents include: diagrams of effective deliveries; hints to
beginners; how to score; official rules; spares, how they are made:
rules for cocked hat, quintet, cocked hat and feather, battle game, etc.
Price 10 cents.


                       Group IX. Indoor Base Ball


  No. 9—Spalding’s Official Indoor Base Ball Guide.

[Illustration]

America’s national game is now vieing with other indoor games as a
winter pastime. This book contains the playing rules, pictures of
leading teams, and interesting articles on the game by leading
authorities on the subject. Price 10 cents.


                             Group X. Polo

No. 10—Spalding’s Official Roller Polo Guide.

[Illustration]

Edited by J. C. Morse. A full description of the game; official rules,
records; pictures of prominent players. Price 10 cents.


  No. 120—Water Polo.

The contents of this book treat of every detail, the individual work of
the players, the practice of the team, how to throw the ball, with
illustrations and many valuable hints. Price 10 cents.


  No. 199—Equestrian Polo.

Compiled by H. L. Fitzpatrick of the New York Sun. Illustrated with
portraits of leading players, and contains most useful information for
polo players. Price 10 cents.


                     Group XI. Miscellaneous Games


  No. 201—Lacrosse.

Every position is thoroughly explained in a most simple and concise
manner, rendering it the best manual of the game ever published.
Illustrated with numerous snapshots of important plays. Price 10 cents.


  No. 322—Official Handbook U. S. Inter-Collegiate Lacrosse League.

Contains the constitution, by-laws, playing rules, list of officers and
records of the association. Price 10 cents.

  No. 271—Spalding’s Official Roque Guide.

The official publication of the National Roque Association of America.
Contains a description of the courts and their construction, diagrams,
illustrations, rules and valuable information. Price 10 cents.


  No. 138—Spalding’s Official Croquet Guide.

Contains directions for playing, diagrams of important strokes,
description of grounds, instructions for the beginner, terms used in the
game, and the official playing rules. Price 10 cents.


  No. 248—Archery.

A new and up-to-date book on this fascinating pastime. The several
varieties of archery; instructions for shooting; how to select
implements; how to score; and a great deal of interesting information.
Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 194—Racquets, Squash-Racquets and Court Tennis.

How to play each game is thoroughly explained, and all the difficult
strokes shown by special photographs taken especially for this book.
Contains the official rules for each game. Price 10 cents.


  No. 167—Quoits.

Contains a description of the plays used by experts and the official
rules. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 170—Push Ball.

This book contains the official rules and a sketch of the game;
illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 13—How to Play Hand Ball.

By the world’s champion, Michael Egan. Every play is thoroughly
explained by text and diagram. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 14—Curling.

A short history of this famous Scottish pastime, with instructions for
play, rules of the game, definitions of terms and diagrams of different
shots. Price 10 cents.


  No. 207—Bowling on the Green; or, Lawn Bowls.

How to construct a green; how to play the game, and the official rules
of the Scottish Bowling Association. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 189—Children’s Games.

These games are intended for use at recesses, and all but the team games
have been adapted to large classes. Suitable for children from three to
eight years, and include a great variety. Price 10 cents.


  No. 188—Lawn Games.

Lawn Hockey, Garden Hockey, Hand Tennis, Tether Tennis; also Volley
Ball, Parlor Hockey, Badminton, Basket Goal. Price 10 cents.


                          Group XII. Athletics


  No. 12—Spalding’s Official Athletic Almanac.

[Illustration]

Compiled by J. E. Sullivan, President of the Amateur Athletic Union. The
only annual publication now issued that contains a complete list of
amateur best-on-records; intercollegiate, swimming, interscholastic.
English, Irish, Scotch, Swedish, Continental, South African,
Australasian; numerous photos of individual athletes and leading
athletic teams. Price 10 cents.


  No. 27—College Athletics.

M. C. Murphy, the well-known athletic trainer, now with Pennsylvania,
the author of this book, has written it especially for the schoolboy and
college man, but it is invaluable for the athlete who wishes to excel in
any branch of athletic sport; profusely illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 182—All-Around Athletics.

Gives in full the method of scoring the All-Around Championship; how to
train for the All-Around Championship. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.



  No. 156—Athlete’s Guide.

Full instructions for the beginner, telling how to sprint, hurdle, jump
and throw weights, general hints on training; valuable advice to
beginners and important A. A. U. rules and their explanations, while the
pictures comprise many scenes of champions in action. Price 10 cents.


  No. 273—The Olympic Games at Athens.

A complete account of the Olympic Games of 1906, at Athens, the greatest
International Athletic Contest ever held. Compiled by J. E. Sullivan,
Special United States Commissioner to the Olympic Games. Price 10 cents.


  No. 87—Athletic Primer.

Edited by J. E. Sullivan. President of the Amateur Athletic Union. Tells
how to organize an athletic club, how to conduct an athletic meeting,
and gives rules for the government of athletic meetings; contents also
include directions for laying out athletic grounds, and a very
instructive article on training. Price 10 cents.


  No. 252—How to Sprint.

Every athlete who aspires to be a sprinter can study this book to
advantage. Price 10 cents.


  No. 255—How to Run 100 Yards.

By J. W. Morton, the noted British champion. Many of Mr. Morton’s
methods of training are novel to American athletes, but his success is
the best tribute to their worth. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 174—Distance and Cross-Country Running.

By George Orton, the famous University of Pennsylvania runner. The
quarter, half, mile, the longer distances, and cross-country running and
steeplechasing, with instructions for training; pictures of leading
athletes in action, with comments by the editor. Price 10 cents.


  No. 259—Weight Throwing.

Probably no other man in the world has had the varied and long
experience of James S. Mitchel, the author, in the weight throwing
department of athletics. The book gives valuable information not only
for the novice, but for the expert as well. Price 10 cents.


  No. 246—Athletic Training for Schoolboys.

By Geo. W. Orton. Each event in the Intercollegiate programme is treated
of separately. Price 10 cents.


  No. 55—Official Sporting Rules.

Contains rules not found in other publications for the government of
many sports; rules for wrestling, shuffleboard, snowshoeing,
professional racing, pigeon shooting, dog racing, pistol and revolver
shooting, British water polo rules, Rugby foot ball rules. Price 10
cents.


                         ATHLETIC AUXILIARIES.


  No. 311—Official Handbook of the A.A.U.

The A. A. U. is the governing body of athletes in the United States of
America, and all games must be held under its rules, which are
exclusively published in this handbook, and a copy should be in the
hands of every athlete and every club officer in America. Also includes
a very interesting article on “The Growth of American Athletics,” and a
short biography of each member of the Board of Governors. Price 10
cents.


  No. 316—Official Intercollegiate A.A.A.A. Handbook.

Contains constitution, by-laws, and laws of athletics; records from 1876
to date. Price 10 cents.


  No. 308—Official Handbook New York Interscholastic Athletic
     Association.

Contains the Association’s records, constitution and by-laws and other
information. Price 10 cents.


  No. 302—Official Y.M.C.A. Handbook.

Contains the official rules governing all sports under the jurisdiction
of the Y. M. C. A., official Y. M. C. A. scoring tables, pentathlon
rules, pictures of leading Y. M. C. A. athletes. Price 10 cents.


  No. 313—Official Handbook of the Public Schools Athletic League.

Edited by Dr. C. Ward Crampton, director of physical education in the
Public Schools of Greater New York. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 314—Official Handbook Girls’ Branch of the Public Schools Athletic
     League.

The official publication. Contains: constitution and by-laws, list of
officers. donors, founders, life and annual members, reports and
illustrations. Price 10 cents.


  No. 331—Schoolyard Athletics.

By J. E. Sullivan. President Amateur Athletic Union and member of Board
of Education of Greater New York. An invaluable handbook for the teacher
and the pupil. Gives a systematic plan for conducting school athletic
contests and instructs how to prepare for the various events.
Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 317—Marathon Running.

A new and up-to-date book on this popular pastime. Contains pictures of
the leading Marathon runners, methods of training, and best times made
in various Marathon events. Price 10 cents.


                  Group XIII. Athletic Accomplishments


  No. 177—How to Swim.

Will interest the expert as well as the novice; the illustrations were
made from photographs especially posed, showing the swimmer in clear
water; a valuable feature is the series of “land drill” exercises for
the beginner. Price 10 cents.


  No. 128—How to Row.

By E. J. Giannini, of the New York Athletic Club, one of America’s most
famous amateur oarsmen and champions. Shows how to hold the oars, the
finish of the stroke and other valuable information. Price 10 cents.


  No. 296—Speed Swimming.

By Champion C. M. Daniels of the New York Athletic Club team, holder of
numerous American records, and the best swimmer in America qualified to
write on the subject. Any boy should be able to increase his speed in
the water after reading Champion Daniels’ instructions on the subject.
Price 10 cents.


  No. 23—Canoeing.

Paddling, sailing, cruising and racing canoes and their uses; with hints
on rig and management; the choice of a canoe; sailing canoes, racing
regulations; canoeing and camping. Fully illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 209—How to Become a Skater.

Contains advice for beginners; how to become a figure skater, showing
how to do all the different tricks of the best figure skaters. Pictures
of prominent skaters and numerous diagrams. Price 10 cents.


  No. 282—Official Roller Skating Guide.

Directions for becoming a fancy and trick roller skater, and rules for
roller skating. Pictures of prominent trick skaters in action. Price 10
cents.


  No. 178—How to Train for Bicycling.

Gives methods of the best riders when training for long or short
distance races; hints on training. Revised and up-to-date in every
particular. Price 10 cents.


                        Group XIV. Manly Sports


  No. 140—Wrestling.

Catch-as-catch-can style. Seventy illustrations of the different holds,
photographed especially and so described that anybody can with little
effort learn every one. Price 10 cents.


  No. 18—Fencing.

By Dr. Edward Breck. of Boston, editor of The Swordsman, a prominent
amateur fencer. A book that has stood the test of time, and is
universally acknowledged to be a standard work. Illustrated. Price 10
cents.


  No. 162—Boxing Guide.

Contains over 70 pages of illustrations showing all the latest blows,
posed especially for this book under the supervision of a well-known
instructor of boxing, who makes a specialty of teaching and knows how to
impart his knowledge. Price 10 cents.


  No. 165—The Art of Fencing.

By Regis and Louis Senac, of New York, famous instructors and leading
authorities on the subject. Gives in detail how every move should be
made. Price 10 cents.


  No. 236—How to Wrestle.

The most complete and up-to-date book on wrestling ever published.
Edited by F. R. Toombs, and devoted principally to special poses and
illustrations by George Hackenschmidt, the “Russian Lion.” Price 10
cents.


  No. 102—Ground Tumbling.

Any boy. by reading this book and following the instructions, can become
proficient. Price 10 cents.


  No. 289—Tumbling for Amateurs.

Specially compiled for amateurs by Dr. James T. Gwathmey. Every variety
of the pastime explained by text and pictures, over 100 different
positions being shown. Price 10 cents.


  No. 191—How to Punch the Bag.

The best treatise on bag punching that has ever been printed. Every
variety of blow used in training is shown and explained, with a chapter
on fancy bag punching by a well-known theatrical bag puncher. Price 10
cents.


  No. 143—Indian Clubs and Dumb-Bells.

By America’s amateur champion club swinger, J. H. Dougherty. It is
clearly illustrated, by which any novice can become an expert. Price 10
cents.


  No. 200—Dumb-Bells.

The best work on dumb-bells that has ever been offered. By Prof. G.
Bojus, of New York. Contains 200 photographs. Should be in the hands of
every teacher and pupil of physical culture, and is invaluable for home
exercise. Price 10 cents.


  No. 262—Medicine Ball Exercises.

A series of plain and practical exercises with the medicine ball,
suitable for boys and girls, business and professional men, in and out
of gymnasium. Price 10 cents.


  No. 29—Pulley Weight Exercises.

By Dr. Henry S. Anderson, instructor In heavy gymnastics Yale gymnasium.
In conjunction with a chest machine anyone with this book can become
perfectly developed. Price 10 cents.


  No. 233—Jiu Jitsu.

Each move thoroughly explained and illustrated with numerous full-page
pictures of Messrs. A. Minami and K. Koyama, two of the most famous
exponents of the art of Jiu Jitsu, who posed especially for this book.
Price 10 cents.


  No. 160—How to Swing Indian Clubs.

By Prof. E. B. Warman. By following the directions carefully anyone can
become an expert. Price 10 cents.


  No. 326—Professional Wrestling.

A book devoted to the catch-as-catch-can style; illustrated with
half-tone pictures showing the different holds used by Frank Gotch.
champion catch-as-catch-can wrestler of the world. Posed by Dr. Roller
and Charles Postl. By Ed. W. Smith, Sporting Editor of the Chicago
American. Price 10 cents.


                          Group XV. Gymnastics


  No. 104—The Grading of Gymnastic Exercises.

By G. M. Martin. A book that should be in the hands of every physical
director of the Y. M. C. A., school, club, college, etc. Price 10 cents.


  No. 214—Graded Calisthenics and Dumb-Bell Drills.

For years it has been the custom in most gymnasiums of memorizing a set
drill, which was never varied. Consequently the beginner was given the
same kind and amount as the older member. With a view to giving
uniformity the present treatise is attempted. Price 10 cents.


  No. 254—Barnjum Bar Bell Drill.

Edited by Dr. R. Tait McKenzie, Director Physical Training, University
of Pennsylvania. Profusely illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 158—Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games.

A book that will prove valuable to indoor and outdoor gymnasiums,
schools, outings and gatherings where there are a number to be amused.
Price 10 cents.


  No. 124—How to Become a Gymnast.

By Robert Stoll, of the New York A. C., the American champion on the
flying rings from 1885 to 1892. Any boy can easily become proficient
with a little practice. Price 10 cents.


  No. 287—Fancy Dumb Bell and Marching Drills.

All concede that games and recreative exercises during the adolescent
period are preferable to set drills and monotonous movements. These
drills, while designed primarily for boys, can be used successfully with
girls and men and women. Profusely illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 327—Pyramid Building Without Apparatus.

By W. J. Cromie, Instructor of Gymnastics. University of Pennsylvania.
With illustrations showing many different combinations. This book should
be in the hands of all gymnasium instructors. Price 10 Cents.


  No. 328—Exercises on the Parallel Bars.

By W. J. Cromie. Every gymnast should procure a copy of this book.
Illustrated with cuts showing many novel exercises. Price 10 cents.


  No. 329—Pyramid Building with Chairs, Wands and Ladders.

By W. J. Cromie. Illustrated with half-tone photographs showing many
interesting combinations. Price 10 cents.


                          GYMNASTIC AUXILIARY.


  No. 333—Official Handbook Inter-Collegiate Association Amateur
     Gymnasts of America.

Edited by P. R. Carpenter, Physical Director Amherst College. Contains
pictures of leading teams and individual champions, official rules
governing contests, records. Price 10 cents.


                      Group XVI. Physical Culture


  No. 161—Ten Minutes’ Exercise for Busy Men.

By Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, Director of Physical Training in the New
York Public Schools. A concise and complete course of physical
education. Price 10 cents.


  No. 208—Physical Education and Hygiene.

This is the fifth of the Physical Training series, by Prof. E. B. Warman
(see Nos. 142, 149, 166, 185, 213, 261, 290.) Price 10 cents.


  No. 149—The Care of the Body.

A book that all who value health should read and follow its
instructions. By Prof. E. B. Warman, the well-known lecturer and
authority on physical culture. Price 10 cents.


  No. 142—Physical Training Simplified.

By Prof. E. B. Warman. A complete, thorough and practical book where the
whole man is considered—brain and body. Price 10 cents.


  No. 185—Health Hints.

By Prof. E. B. Warman. Health influenced by insulation; health
influenced by underwear; health influenced by color; exercise. Price 10
cents.


  No. 213—285 Health Answers.

By Prof. E. B. Warman. Contents: ventilating a bedroom; ventilating a
house; how to obtain pure air; bathing; salt water baths at home; a
substitute for ice water; to cure insomnia, etc., etc. Price 10 cents.


  No. 238—Muscle Building.

By Dr. L. H. Gulick, Director of Physical Training in the New York
Public Schools. A complete treatise on the correct method of acquiring
strength. Illustrated. Price 10 cents.


  No. 234—School Tactics and Maze Running.

A series of drills for the use of schools. Edited by Dr. Luther Halsey
Gulick. Director of Physical Training in the New York Public Schools.
Price 10 cents.


  No. 261—Tensing Exercises.

By Prof. E. B. Warman. The “Tensing” or “Resisting” system of muscular
exercises is the most thorough, the most complete, the most
satisfactory, and the most fascinating of systems. Price 10 cents.


  No. 285—Health; by Muscular Gymnastics.

With hints on right living. By W. J. Cromie. If one will practice the
exercises and observe the hints therein contained, he will be amply
repaid for so doing. Price 10 cents.


  No. 288—Indigestion Treated by Gymnastics.

By W. J. Cromie. If the hints therein contained are observed and the
exercises faithfully performed great relief will be experienced. Price
10 cents.


  No. 290—Get Well; Keep Well.

By Prof. E. B. Warman. author of a number of books in the Spalding
Athletic Library on physical training. Price 10 cents.


  No. 325—Twenty-Minute Exercises.

By Prof. E. B. Warman, with chapters on “How to Avoid Growing Old,” and
“Fasting; Its Objects and Benefits.” Price 10 cents.


  No. 330—Physical Training for the School and Class Room.

Edited by G. R. Borden. Physical Director of the Y. M. C. A., Easton,
Pa. A book that is for practical work in the school room, Illustrated.
Price 10 cents.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration:

  A. G. SPALDING

  FROM PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN IN SAN FRANCISCO IN NOVEMBER, 1879
]

------------------------------------------------------------------------


                       SPALDING ATHLETIC LIBRARY
                           Group XIV. No. 289




                         Tumbling for Amateurs

[Illustration]

                                   By

                        JAMES T. GWATHMEY, M.D.


                              Published by
                   AMERICAN SPORTS PUBLISHING COMPANY
                       21 Warren Street, New York




                            COPYRIGHT, 1910

                                   BY

                   AMERICAN SPORTS PUBLISHING COMPANY

                                NEW YORK

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                         TUMBLING FOR AMATEURS


Teachers, especially in public gymnasia, where the attendance is
voluntary, will welcome anything that will make the exercises more
attractive and do away, as far as possible, with the idea of “work.”

Tumbling should form a part of every system taught in our public
gymnasia, and to those who have not heretofore studied the subject we
submit the following propositions:

1. Tumbling will develop, harmoniously, the whole body without the aid
of any apparatus whatever, or any other set of exercises. A careful
study of the physiques of professional tumblers will verify this
statement.

2. The exercises can be easily graded, so that there will be absolutely
no danger in going from primary to advanced tumbling. In individual
tumbling, the body being always close to the ground, the chances of a
break or a sprain are reduced to a minimum; and in comparison with other
forms of exercise, such as boxing, wrestling, or apparatus work, the
percentage of accidents will be found to compare most favorably.

3. Friends can enter into the keenest competition, urging each other to
the highest possible development and perfection, and never experience
the inconveniences of black eyes and bruises—the usual resultants of
combative exercises.

4. At least 50 per cent. of those entering the gymnasium can participate
in some form of tumbling, either individual or combination; the greatest
progress for adults being attained in the latter, where two or more men
exercise together.

5. No expensive appliances or apparatus is necessary in introducing or
teaching tumbling, the mats absolutely essential in any gymnasium being
all-sufficient for ordinary class work. But if tumbling is to be made a
feature, then a large mat, 15 feet long by 6 feet wide and 2 feet high
and stuffed with straw or hay, will be found a very attractive addition,
as it can be used to great advantage with any gymnastic apparatus.

6. For boys, tumbling is the most natural exercise in the world, as they
are easily interested and held in this form of exercise when a dumb-bell
drill would run them away. Besides the development, they get
co-ordination and control to a remarkable extent, which will be
invaluable to them in any exercise that they may engage in later on.

7. A tumbler easily adapts himself to all gymnastic apparatus, and will
usually be found to be more graceful than an exclusive apparatus worker.
If teachers who have never used tumbling would introduce it, it would do
away, in a great measure, with that stiffness which is so distasteful to
many; and, if as systematically taught as their apparatus work, would
change the product of their gymnasiums from the top-heavy type to a
symmetrical whole.

8. It is the one universal exercise used by the whole human family from
the earliest times to the dawn of the twentieth century, and will
continue in use as long as the world lasts. The millions of babies
tumbling in the world to-day, learning their first physical exercise—to
walk—reminds us that we have all taken a few lessons, at least, in this
most useful art.

9. Tumbling is of more importance than all other exercises, as, _nolens
volens_, we all take a tumble occasionally; and if we know how to
tumble—so as to land on our feet or keep from falling—it will give us a
confidence that we would not otherwise have. There seems to be a very
prevalent idea that if a man has never learned how to tumble before he
is twenty-one he had just as well not start. On the contrary, if a
person has never taken gymnastic exercises, he can make greater
advancement in tumbling than in almost any other form of exercise, if
his physique permits of tumbling at all. After acquiring a few of the
exercises, tumbling can be practiced with pleasure and satisfaction on
any lawn, sand-bar, or sawdust pile, and in this way will prove of more
practical utility than almost any form of gymnastics.

A word of caution might not be out of place: In teaching adults (where a
large mat, such as already described, is not used) the small mats cannot
be piled too high to prevent jars and shocking surprises. If pupils
suffer from dizziness, excuse them from these exercises. In combination
tumbling the belt, or lunger, must always be put on for a first trial,
however simple the exercise may appear.

In the following pages I have depended almost entirely upon the
illustrations, and have intentionally made the text as short and concise
as possible—following the plan of Messrs. Hitchcock and Nelligan’s most
excellent work, “Wrestling.” I am also indebted to Dr. William Anderson,
of Yale University, for many valuable suggestions.

                                                      JAMES T. GWATHMEY.

[Illustration]




                            PRIMARY TUMBLING


1. =The Forward Roll Over.= Double up close, and finish standing erect
on toes. Figs. 1, 2, 3.

2. =The Forward Roll Over=, grasping toes throughout roll. Fig. 4.

3. =The Forward Roll Over=, grasping toes, legs crossed Fig. 5.

4. =The Forward Roll Over=, arms between legs, hands on outside of
ankles. Fig. 6.

5. =The Forward Roll Over=, arms between legs, hands clasped. Fig. 7.

6. =The Forward Roll Over=, arms at side horizontal throughout exercise.
Do not touch mat with hands. Commence standing on right foot, swing the
left to front to get momentum, and then under and back as you roll over
to erect position on right foot again. Figs. 8, 9, 10, 11.

7. =The Forward Roll Over.= Same as No. 6, starting on left foot.

8. =The Forward Roll Over.= To lying flat on back.

9. =The Forward Roll Over=, with half-turn to face downward.

10. =The Forward Roll Over=, feet spread, arms in different positions.

11. =The Forward Roll Over=, arms folded, come to standing position.

[Illustration]

12. =The Backward Roll Over.= Repeat all of the foregoing backwards.

13. =A Dive= is a jump for height or distance, alighting on hands. Bend
arms, duck head, and forward roll over. Never strike middle of back
first. Commence with the forward roll over (Figs. 1, 2, 3), and
gradually increase the height or distance until you can finally go your
full limit without jolting or bumping yourself in the least. The rise is
usually from both feet.

14. =Dive= (1) =for distance=, (2) =for height=.

15. =Combine the Forward Roll Over and Dive for= (1) =Distance=, (2) for
=Height=.

16. =Fall Forward without Bending at Hips=, with knees stiff; catch on
hands.

17. =Fall Backward=, stiff (stage fall).

18. =Fall Forward=, with chest out, and back arched. Turn head to right
or left. Continue rolling, and push over to feet.

19. =Combine Front and Back Roll Over=, making continuous movement by
crossing legs as you finish the front roll.

20. =Combine Back and Front Roll Over.=

21. =Combine Front, Back, and Front Roll Over= in quick succession.

22. =Combine Back, Front, and Back Roll Over= in quick succession.

23. =Roll Over Backward=, straightening body as you go over to
lying-down position on stomach.

24. Lie on back, arms at side horizontal. Bring right hand close to
side, turn head to right, and at same time bend at waist, bringing feet
over head, then snap over quickly on to stomach, facing in opposite
direction.

[Illustration]

25. Hold left toe with right hand and jump right leg through.

26. Hold right toe with left hand and jump left leg through.

27. Hold stick in hands, jump through and back in order to learn to
double up close for back or forward somersault. Fig. 12.

28. =Head Stand.= Place the hands in line on the mat, and the head
between and about 10 inches in advance, forming an equilateral triangle;
throw feet over head, with knees together and toes pointed upward; hold
30 seconds, then forward roll over.

20. =Hand Stand.= Beginners can best learn this by placing the hands on
floor 1½ feet from wall and throwing the feet up against the wall. In
practising hand stands on the floor, come down easy to feet the same way
you threw into position, or pick up right or left hand as you
overbalance and come to feet, or bend arms and roll over. Fig. 13.

30. =Head Stand.= Push up into hand stand without losing balance.

31. =Forward Roll Over into Head Stand.=

32. =Backward Roll Over into Head Stand.=

N. B.—Do not compete in holding head stands for time. Caution boys
especially against this foolish practice.

33. =“Bucking Broncho.”= Throw almost into hand stand, bend knees and
push up hard with hands, throwing head and shoulders up and back, snap
feet to floor and come to standing position; jump to hands again and
repeat.

34. =The Forward Roll Over into Hand Stand.=

35. =The Backward Roll Over into Hand Stand.=

[Illustration]

36. Body stiff, face downward, resting on hands and feet, without
raising either hand, jump between hands to lying-down position on back.

37. =Roll Down.= From hand stand incline head and shoulders forward,
bend arms until chest touches, keep back arched, roll to lying-down
position on mat, then to knees, and jump to feet immediately.

38. =Head Stand and Roll Down.=

39. Lie on back, raise feet up in air, place the hands just above the
hips, with elbows, upper arms and shoulders touching mat, bend and
straighten knees with a snap, thus progressing backward on shoulders.

40. =Head Spring.= Place head (touching upper part of forehead, not the
back of head) between and in advance of hands on mat. As you snap feet
over shove hard from hands and head. Alight in standing position, with
knees bent. Fig. 14.

N. B.—Always place head on mat easily, thus obviating jars.

41. Same as No. 40, only alighting knees stiff and back arched.

42. Same as No. 40, without hands.

43. Repeat No. 40, alight on right foot, and hold balance.

44. Repeat No. 40, alight on left foot, and hold balance.

45. =Twisting Head Spring.= Same as No. 40, only twist the body to right
or left, and land facing starting position.

46. =The Balance Head Spring.= From head stand bend at waist, with knees
stiff, execute head spring without touching feet to floor.

47. Same as No. 46, but with neck spring.

48. =Neck Spring= (snap up). Place back of head and neck on mat between
hands. Same movement as head spring. Fig. 15.

[Illustration]

49. =Neck Spring.= Hands on front of thighs, shove hard with hands and
head as you snap feet over. Fig. 16.

50. =Neck Spring= with arms folded. Fig. 17.

51. =Hand Spring.= Jump from either foot on to hands. Keep the arms
perfectly stiff, and as the feet are thrown quickly over (chest and
stomach well out and head back) shove hard from hands and alight on feet
with bent knees. Figs. 18, 20.

52. =Leaping Hand Spring.= Jump from both feet on to hands. Movement
same as in 51. Touch hands lightly as you go over. Figs. 19, 20.

53. Same as 51, only alight on balls of feet, with knees stiff, back
arched, and perfectly erect position.

54. =The Cart-wheel.= Either right or left side leading, keep the head
back, chest and stomach well out, hands and feet as well separated as
possible. If right side leads, place right hand on floor following with
left, then left foot followed by right. Continue movement by keeping in
a straight line.

55. =Round Off.= Start as in cart-wheel, but hand spring movement, turn,
snap the feet down quickly, and alight facing starting-point.

56. Roll over backward to back of neck and snap up.

57. Jump, turn in air, alight facing starting-point, and back roll over.

58. Combine hand stand (Fig. 13) and snap up (Fig. 15).

59. A row of hand stands and snap ups in quick succession.

60. Combine two, three, or four head springs in quick succession.

61. Combine two, three, or four neck springs in quick succession.

[Illustration]

62. =Alternate Head and Neck Springs= in quick succession.

63. =Hand Walk.= Throw up into hand stand, and as you overbalance take a
step forward with either right or left hand, and continue.

64. =Hand Walk Forward.=

65. =Hand Walk Backward.=

66. =Hand Walk in Circle.=

67. Hand walk forward, turn, and come back to starting-point.

68. Hand walk forward, touching chest at each step.

69. Hand walk, forward roll into hand stand, and repeat.

70. Two head springs into hand stand, roll down (37), pull through (36),
and snap up (48).

71. Dive, back roll into hand stand, to neck, and snap up.

The combinations of the foregoing movements are infinite, and the
inventive teacher can repeat the same exercises in a different order or
combination, making new movements out of the old ones, and thus keeping
up the interest and enthusiasm from day to day. Select ten or twelve
movements from the preceding list, and give as a drill for one lesson.
Change the order, and repeat for next lesson; but give an entirely
different drill for third lesson. As the pupils advance let them put in
their own combinations at the end of each lesson.

[Illustration]




                           ADVANCED TUMBLING


Note.—Advanced tumbling should never be attempted alone the first time.
A belt, with an assistant on either side, is the usual method of
practising these exercises. Do not hurry. Practise one movement day
after day until you are proficient, remembering that a difficult
movement once mastered is as simple as any other, and that after
learning you can execute them with ease and impunity. It is folly, not
bravery, to attempt movements by yourself that you are not sure of; and
you are the one to decide this, not others.

1. =Back Somersault.= From standing position, hands by the side, spring
straight up (do not bend forward as you stoop for spring), throwing
hands high above head; throw the head back, and, grasping the knees,
pull them well in at the highest point of jump, at the same time kicking
the feet forward; let out, and come down straight. Fig. 21.

2. From a hand stand snap to feet and a back somersault.

3. Round off and a back somersault.

4. Two, three, or four back somersaults in a swing.

5. Forward run and back somersault.

6. Cart-wheel, round off, and back.

7. =Front Somersault.= Run forward, and as you run increase your speed;
spring from either right or left foot a distance of from 8 to 12 feet,
landing on the balls of both feet, hands by the side (Fig. 70), chest
out, and head erect (not forward); jump for height, lifting the body by
a quick upward swing of the arms, and at the highest point of the jump
throw head and hands down with a snap, grasp the legs a short distance
below the knees and pull in close and hard, doubling up close, then
straighten out quickly and alight on balls of feet in erect position.
Fig. 22.

[Illustration]

Note.—Make the jump for height the fastest part of the run, and as you
jump increase your speed so as to get the greatest height attainable,
double into as small a ball as possible, and then let out and come down
perfectly straight, and you have the ideal somersault.

8. =Standing Front Somersault.= Hands by the sides (Fig. 70), spring
straight upward, lifting with arms and shoulders, and as you reach the
limit of your height throw head and hands forward with a snap, grasping
ankles and pulling in close; then let out again quickly.

9. =The Layout Front Somersault.= (Done principally from the
spring-board, although a few exceptionally fine jumpers can do it from
the mat.) As you rise for the somersault throw the hands well out in
front, with arms perfectly stiff, head up, chest out; hold this position
for a second, then make a quick, close double as in the ordinary
somersault; let out and come down straight.

10. =One Foot Front.= Stand on one foot and execute regular somersault.

11. =Knee Front.= From kneeling position raise to feet, regular
somersault.

12. =Head Spring and Front Somersault.=

13. =Hand Spring and Front Somersault.=

14. =Two Front Somersaults in Quick Succession.=

N. B.—A double somersault should never be attempted by amateurs.

[Illustration]

15. =Back Hand Spring, or “Flip”= (the most difficult of all tumbling
exercises). From standing position raise the heels, bend the knees, let
the hands go back past sides, keep the body, from waist up, straight,
stoop until hands can nearly touch the mat; from this position throw the
hands swiftly forward and upward, at the same time raise on toes (but do
not jump at all), arching the back well in, head and arms thrown as far
back as possible; pull the body over by momentum of shoulders, body, and
head. Figs. 23, 24, 25.

16. =Hand Stand, Snap to Feet, and Flip.=

17. =Hand Stand, Snap to Feet, Flip, and Back.=

18. =A Row of Flips; Two or More in Quick Succession.=

19. =Alternate Flips and Backs.=

20. =Round Off and Flip.=

21. =Round Off, Flip, and Back.=

22. =Twisting Flip.= As the hands hit, twist the body and alight facing
in opposite direction from which you started.

23. =A Series of Twisting Flips.= The hands strike about the same place
each time.

24. =Twisting Back.= Regular movement, only throw head hard to right or
left and alight facing opposite direction from which you started. Fig.
74.

25. =Hand Stand, Snap to Feet, and Twisting Flip.=

26. =Round Off and Twisting Back.=

27. =Running Twisting Forward Somersault.= Regular movement, only throw
head hard to right or left, and alight facing direction from which you
started.

28. =Running Side Somersault.= Alight sideways and turn sideways.

Devise, invent, and make up your own combinations.

[Illustration]




                          COMBINATION TUMBLING


By this is meant a series of combinations by two or more men exercising
together. In these exercises a belt must always be put on for the first
trial (or assistants stand on either side), however simple the exercises
may appear, and must be kept on until the exercise is thoroughly
mastered, which would mean that you have each other’s time and act in
unison. Work with the same men all the time; beware of strangers, even
if both of you understand the exercises. Do not be afraid to use caution
and common sense. Only combinations that can be mastered by business men
with limited time have been put in; the more dangerous ones, requiring
much time, being intentionally omitted. In all of the following
exercises No. 1 is the heaviest or “bottom” man; No. 2, “middle” man;
and No. 3, “top” man (or lightest man).


                             ELEPHANT WALK.

1. Stand facing each other. No. 2 puts hands on No. 1’s shoulders,
springs up and throws legs around No. 1’s waist, then leans backward and
drops between No. 1’s legs, who then bends forward and places hands on
floor keeping knees stiff; No. 2 places hands on No. 1’s heels and
straightens arms; No. 1 then walks off (also with a small boy on top),
or untwists legs and both do a roll over. Fig. 26.

[Illustration]


                               WALK OFF.

2. No. 2 makes hand stand, feet well apart; No. 1 steps in, letting legs
rest on hips, and grasps heels of No. 2, who straightens himself, arms
folded; No. 1 then walks off with him. For first part of movement see
Fig. 96.


                            HAND STAND ROLL.

3. No. 1 stands erect; No. 2 makes hand stand close to No. 1’s heels,
his legs dropping over No. 1’s shoulders, who grasps No. 2’s ankles,
bends forward, quickly pulling No. 2 over to a standing position; No. 1
now does a hand stand and is thrown over by No. 2. Repeat in quick
succession. For first part of movement see Fig. 99.


                              DOUBLE ROLL.

4. No. 1 lies on back, legs raised to vertical, with knees slightly
bent, and grasps No. 2’s ankles, who stands close to his head and also
grasps No. 1’s ankles; No. 2 dives forward, held back slightly by No. 1
to break his fall; continue roll. Fig. 27.

5. Repeat No. 4 backward.


                   HANDS BETWEEN LEGS AND PULL OVER.

6. Facing same direction, No. 2 leans forward and places his arms
between his own legs; his wrists are grasped by No. 1, who lifts (as No.
2 jumps) and throws him over to his feet. Figs. 28, 29.


                         BACK TO BACK AND OVER.

7. Stand back to back, arms extended vertically, grasp each other’s
hands, heads turned to opposite sides; No. 2 springs and No. 1 pulls No.
2 over shoulders to feet. No. 2 must never relax muscles on this
exercise. Figs. 30, 31.

[Illustration]


                    BALANCE ON HEAD AND THROW OVER.

8. Facing in same direction, No. 1 grasps No. 2 on either side of belt,
and No. 2 grasps No. 1’s wrists and springs up, assisted by No. 1
lifting, and comes to balance position on No. 1’s head; No. 2 then
throws his head back, pulls legs up and snaps over to feet, assisted by
a slight push from No. 1. Figs. 32, 33.


                            THROW OVER HEAD.

9. Same as No. 8, only in quicker time. No. 2 does not touch head of No.
1, who holds his arms perfectly stiff, and throws No. 2 over his head in
one movement. Fig. 34.

10. Leap-frog, roll over, and continue.


                          STRADDLE VAULT OVER.

11. No. 1 places one hand under No. 2’s crotch; No. 2 places both hands
on No. 1’s head and vaults over. Figs. 35, 36.


                       STRADDLE OVER FROM FLOOR.

12a. No. 2 lies down and No. 1 places foot close up and between No. 2’s
legs and grasps both hands of No. 2, who springs up and straddle vaults
over, while No. 1 pulls, then pushes his hands to horizontal with
quarter turn of body.


                     STRADDLE OVER AND HAND SPRING.

12b. Position and first part of movement same as No. 12a, only No. 1
grasps No. 2’s wrists; as No. 2 passes over No. 1’s head, he doubles up
close and does a hand spring from No. 1’s hands.


                          LOW ARM HAND STAND.

13. No. 1 lies on back, feet apart; No. 2 steps in and, bending forward,
they place hands on each other’s shoulders; No. 2 does hand stand, No. 1
holding him in position. Fig. 37.

[Illustration]


                          HIGH ARM HAND STAND.

14. Facing each other, hands on shoulders, No. 2 jumps up, crossing feet
behind back of No. 1, who leans over and immediately comes to erect
position; No. 2 pushing up into high arm stand. Figs. 38, 39, 40.


                          HIGH ARM HAND STAND.

15. Repeat No. 13. No. 2 is let down easily by No. 1, and rolls over,
retaining hold on each other’s shoulders, to lying down position on
backs; No. 1 does a quick back roll, and lands on feet between No. 2’s
spread legs, and immediately pulls No. 2 (who assists by jumping) to
high hand to shoulder stand in air. Fig. 40.

16. From position of Fig. 39, No. 1 throws No. 2 hand spring over head.


                          PULL UP FROM FLOOR.

17. Facing each other, and six feet apart, No. 2 dives halfway over,
keeping palms of hands on mat by side of head, legs vertical; No. 1
grasps ankles and gives him a quick pull up and throw away; No. 2
assisting by pushing with his hands and head, and coming to standing
position facing No. 1. Figs. 41, 42.

18. Same as No. 17, only both face same direction; No. 2 does forward
roll; No. 1 pulls No. 2 to feet.


                          BACK FROM FOREARMS.

19. No. 1 stands body straight, feet spread, knees bent, and,
interlacing fingers, holds forearms horizontal; No. 2 places hands on
No. 1’s shoulders, jumps to forearms, and back somersaults off. Figs.
43, 44.

[Illustration]


                            ONE LEG FORWARD.

20. Facing same direction, one foot apart, No. 2 bends knee and places
right or left ankle in No. 1’s hands; No. 2 jumps directly up (assisted
by No. 1), cuts close, and does a high forward somersault, coming down
straight. Figs. 45, 46.


                          MOUNT TO SHOULDERS.

21. No. 1 facing front, No. 2 to left of No. 1 and right face; No. 1
bends knees slightly, feet well apart, holds right hand over head, palm
up, and grasps No. 2’s right hand, also No. 2’s left with his left hand;
No. 2 places left foot on No. 1’s left thigh; as each pulls hard with
right hand, No. 2 jumps and places his right foot on No. 1’s right
shoulder and left on left shoulder, lets go of No. 1’s hands and stands
erect, heels together on balls of feet, knees straight, and legs
pressing hard on No. 1’s head. Figs. 47, 48.


                    MOUNT TO SHOULDER WITHOUT HANDS.

22. Position same as in No. 21, only No. 1 folds arms; and No. 2, taking
a short run, mounts to shoulders without using hands.


                           LIFT TO SHOULDER.

23. Facing in same direction, No. 1 grasps No. 2’s hands and lifts to
shoulders, No. 2 doubling up close in order to bring his feet to No. 1’s
shoulders. For first part of movement see Fig. 57.


                              TO DISMOUNT.

24. No. 1 reaches up and grasps hands of No. 2, who jumps down between.

25. Both lean forward as far as possible; No. 2 jumps to feet, and both
do a forward roll over.

[Illustration]


                          BACK FROM SHOULDERS.

26. Mount as in No. 23; as No. 2 jumps, No. 1 assists by lifting hard.
Fig. 49.


                         FRONT FROM SHOULDERS.

27. Mount as in No. 23; as No. 2 jumps, No. 1 assists by lifting hard.
Fig. 50.


                              CROTCH BACK.

28. Facing each other, No. 1 places hands under No. 2’s crotch, and
lifts hard; No. 2 doing a regular back somersault. Figs. 51, 52.


                             CROTCH FRONT.

29. Facing in same direction. No. 1 grasps No. 2 by seat and lifts hard;
No. 2 doing a regular front somersault. Fig. 53.


                           PULL TO SHOULDERS.

30. Facing each other, No. 2 leans forward, putting his hands between
his own spread legs; No. 1 leans over and grasps No. 2’s wrists; a quick
pull lands No. 2 on his shoulders straddle seat. He then places his
hands under thighs of No. 2, who, in turn, does a back somersault off,
assisted by a slight shove from No. 1. Fig. 54.

31. Same as No. 30, only No. 2 puts his feet on No. 1’s shoulders. Back
or forward somersault off.


                PULL TO SHOULDERS AND HAND SPRING OVER.

32. Position same as in Fig. 54. No. 1 grasps No. 2’s wrists, pulls him
up, and places his hands on his shoulders; No. 2 continues movement by
hand spring over.

[Illustration]


                               NECK LIFT.

33. Facing same way, No. 1 puts head between legs of No. 2, who leans
back quickly, and No. 1 straightens up and tosses him over his head; No.
2 doing back somersault movement. Figs. 55, 56.


                        TWISTING BACK OVER HEAD.

34. Same as 33, only No. 2 throws head quickly to right or left, and
alights with back to No. 1.


                              DOUBLE DIVE.

35. Facing, and 6 feet apart, No. 1 dives forward, and as his head rests
on mat—that is, half way over—with feet well apart, No. 2 dives over,
comes to feet quickly; each turns, and repeat movement.


                              TRIPLE DIVE.

36. No. 1 in middle and facing No. 2, No. 3 back of No. 1 and facing in
same direction; No. 1 dives forward and No. 2 dives over No. 1 (as in
No. 35); No. 3 immediately dives over No. 2, and No. 1 has turned and
now dives over No. 3; No. 2 again dives over No. 1, and repeat as
before.


                         LIFT AWAY HAND SPRING.

37. Facing in same direction, No. 1 grasps No. 2’s hands and lifts him
to standing position on shoulders; No. 2 jumps to mat between hands,
and, without letting go, immediately jumps straight up, doubling up as
he goes, stiffening arms and pressing hard against hands of No. 1, who
pushes up, straightening arms; No. 2 continues on through, and does a
hand spring from No. 1’s hands. Figs. 57, 58.

[Illustration]


                 THREE JUMPS AND LIFT AWAY HAND SPRING.

38. Position same as Fig. 57, only No. 1 rests right knee on mat; No. 2
jumps over No. 1’s right arm, and immediately back to first position, in
same manner over left arm, then over head and back again; No. 1 now
rises to feet immediately, No. 2 doing lift away hand spring as in No.
37.

39. Same as No. 37, only go straight from mat to hand spring without
going to shoulders.


                             ONE LEG BACK.

40. No. 2 places right leg in No. 1’s hands, leg horizontal, knee stiff;
as No. 2 jumps and presses down with right leg No. 1 lifts hard,
throwing him a back somersault. Figs. 59, 60.


                             LAY OUT BACK.

41. No. 1 interlaces fingers, palms up, and stoops well down, feet
spread; No. 2 places hands on shoulders (also without placing hands on
shoulders) and right foot in his hands, jumps, straightening right leg,
and does a hollow back somersault, No. 1 lifting up hard. Figs. 61, 62.


                             LAY OUT BACK.

42. Same as No. 41, only No. 1 places hands behind back instead of in
front.


                          GAINER LAY OUT BACK.

43. Same as No. 41, only No. 2 turns over No. 1’s head, alighting on
opposite side from which he started.


                       RUNNING FORWARD OVERHEAD.

44. Position of No. 1 same as in No. 41; No. 2 runs, placing hands on
No. 1’s shoulders, and right foot in hands, jumps, straightening right
leg, and goes for regular front somersault, alighting with back to No.
1.

[Illustration]


                       HAND SPRING TO SHOULDERS.

45. Facing each other, No. 1 bends knees slightly; No. 2 takes a run and
places hands on No. 1’s knees and does a hand spring up, assisted by No.
1 grasping him by hips. Now quick roll back from shoulders. Fig. 63.


                         HIGH ARM HAND SPRING.

46. No. 1 spreads feet and braces himself, bending knees and getting
low; No. 2 takes a good run, places hands on shoulders of No. 1, who
grasps his thighs and pushes him over for a hand spring. Fig. 64.


                      PULL UP AND BACK FROM HANDS.

47. Facing each other, and 6 feet apart, No. 2 rolls over and pushes his
feet well up under him; No. 1 steps in, grasping No. 2’s hands, pulls
him up, and then pushes him up and away; No. 2, doubling up close,
pushing hard with hands, throws head back and goes for back somersault.
Figs. 65, 66.


                            BACK FROM BACK.

48. Facing in same direction, No. 1 bends over, placing hands on knees;
No. 2 jumps to back, between shoulders, and does a back off, No. 1
lifting up hard. Figs. 67, 68.


                           FORWARD FROM BACK.

49. Facing each other, and about 20 feet apart, No. 1 stoops over,
placing hands on knees; No. 2 runs and jumps on No. 1’s back, between
shoulders, and immediately goes for front somersault, as from
spring-board, No. 1 throwing hard. Fig. 69.

[Illustration]


                     HIGH HAND-TO-HAND HAND STAND.

50. Lift to shoulders, as in No. 23. From position of Fig. 91, No. 2
throws into hand stand.


                    MOVEMENTS FROM POSITION OF FLOOR


                            BACK FROM HANDS.

51a. No. 1 lying on back, hands close to head; No. 2 steps in No. 1’s
hands and does a back somersault, assisted by No. 1. Figs. 70, 71.

51b. Same as No. 51, only No. 2 takes a few steps and jumps in No. 1’s
hands, going for back immediately.


                            BACK FROM HANDS.

52. No. 1 sits on floor, feet spread, and places hands in front, palms
up; No. 2 steps in hands as before, and back out.


                           FRONT FROM HANDS.

53. No. 2 places toes in No. 1’s hands, and does a regular front,
assisted by No. 1. Fig. 72.


                       TWISTING BACK FROM HANDS.

54. Same as No. 51, only No. 2 twists completely around by turning head
to right or left as he goes over, and alights facing in opposite
direction from which he started. Fig. 73.


                         HAND SPRING OVER FEET.

55. Clasp hands (do not interlace fingers), No. 1 placing feet on No.
2’s body, No. 2 jumps, and No. 1 pushes hard with feet and keeps his
arms stiff, No. 2 pushing off with hands as he goes over. Figs. 74, 75.

[Illustration]


                         HAND SPRING FROM FEET.

56. No. 2 grasps No. 1’s ankles and places feet against his body, same
as in No. 55; No. 2 shoves hard from ankles as he goes over, keeping
arms stiff in last part of movement, No. 1 also holding his legs stiff
in last part of movement. Figs. 76, 77.


                   HAND SPRING FROM KNEES OVER HANDS.

57. No. 2 runs and places hands on No. 1’s knees and hand spring over,
No. 1 shoving his shoulders, if necessary, as he goes over. Fig. 78.


                   HAND SPRING FROM HANDS OVER FEET.

58. No. 2 steps in No. 1’s hands and grasps the bottoms of feet of No.
1, who holds legs stiff while No. 2 does hand spring over. Figs. 79, 80.


                            BACK OVER FEET.

59. Standing close to No. 1’s shoulders, No. 2 sits on his feet, leans
back, and No. 1 pushes up hard; No. 2 doubles up for regular back. Figs.
81, 82.


                        TWISTING BACK OVER FEET.

60. Same as No. 59, only No. 2 throws head quickly to right or left and
alights with back to No. 1.


                            SIDE OVER FEET.

61. No. 2 stands by side of No. 1, and sits on feet. Rest of movement
same as in No. 59. Figs. 83, 84.


                         PITCH BACK FROM FEET.

62. No. 2 sits on No. 1’s feet and lays back; No. 1 kicks vigorously,
No. 2 doing regular back movement, and landing away from No. 1 on same
side from which he started, not turning over No. 1 at all. Figs. 85, 86.

[Illustration]


                            BACK FROM FEET.

63. No. 2 jumps on No. 1’s feet, gets a perfect balance, and does a back
off.


                      MOUNT TO FEET AND BACK OFF.

64. No. 1 lies on back, feet up, hands on outside of thighs; No. 2
places right foot on No. 1’s left thigh, and presses inside of knee
against No. 1’s foot to steady himself. He then places left foot on No.
1’s left foot and, without touching hands, comes to an erect position,
then back somersault off. Figs. 87, 88.


                        HAND SPRING FROM ELBOWS.

65. Facing each other, No. 1 places hands on knees, bending over so that
elbows project above back; No. 2 runs, places hands on elbows, and hand
spring over. Figs. 89, 90.


                      HAND SPRING FROM SHOULDERS.

66. Mount to shoulders as in No. 23, then hand spring off. Figs. 91, 92.


                         PULL THROUGH TO FEET.

67. Facing in same direction, No. 1 in front, No. 2 rolls to position on
back, arms folded, and straightens knees so that his feet can be grasped
by No. 1, who pulls him through quickly on to feet. Fig. 93.


                             MISCELLANEOUS


                    HAND SPRING OVER HEAD FROM HIPS.

68. Facing each other, No. 1 places head between No. 2’s legs and,
grasping his knees, straightens up, throwing No. 2 over his head, who
assists movement by placing his hands on No. 1’s hips and pushing off
hard, elbows stiff. Fig. 94.

[Illustration]


                    JUMP TO SHOULDERS IN FOUR JUMPS.

69. No. 1 does a hand stand and roll down; No. 2 stands over him, feet
on either side of thighs. No. 2 jumps on No. 1’s back thighs and
immediately jumps straight up, No. 1 coming to hands and knees, and No.
2 lands on No. 1’s back just above hips; No. 2 again jumps straight up,
and No. 1 comes to feet with hands on knees; No. 2 jumps up again, No. 1
comes to an erect position, and No. 2 lands on shoulders. Lean and roll
over.


                              WALK AROUND.

70. Complete jump to shoulders as in No. 69; No. 1 bends and places
right knee and then left on mat, now crosses feet and sits down,
straightening legs out in front, then lies down, still holding and
steadying No. 2 by ankles, who retains his erect position by standing on
front of No. 1’s shoulders; No. 1 brings legs up, feet well apart, and
No. 2 steps on his right or left hock and mashes it down; No. 1 turns
head to right or left and continues back roll, coming to hands and
knees; No. 2 steps up immediately on his back and does two jumps to
shoulders (lean and roll over, or back or forward somersault off).


                         DOUBLE ROLL OVER BACK.

71. Get into position as in No. 2; No. 1 presses hard on heels of No. 2,
who comes up quickly and continues movement by rolling on over No. 1’s
back. Figs. 95, 96.


                      HAND STAND AND DOUBLE OVER.

72. No. 2 does a hand stand, and his ankles are grasped by No. 1, who
stoops over quickly and assists No. 2 in turning the front somersault
after leaving his shoulders, by pushing up hard on No. 2’s ankles
(called a double—the body only turns once and a half). Figs. 97, 98, 99.

[Illustration]


                              TRIPLE ROLL.

73. Same as No. 4, only three men grasp each other’s ankles and roll
forward. Fig. 100.


                           BACK FROM THIGHS.

74. Facing each other, No. 1 squats, No. 2 placing hands on No. 1’s
shoulders; No. 2 jumps on his thighs, No. 1 catching him by calves; No.
2 does a back, assisted by No. 1 lifting and raising up. Fig. 101.


                           FRONT FROM THIGHS.

75. Facing in same direction, No. 1 stoops, and placing his head under
No. 2’s crotch lifts to shoulders, stoops and places No. 2’s feet on his
thighs (or No. 1 grasps No. 2’s hands and lifts to thighs) and grasps
his ankles; No. 2 straightens up and No. 1 pulls his head out, and as
No. 2 jumps for his forward No. 1 assists by raising up and lifting hard
with hands. Fig. 102.


                              THE BASKET.

76. From this position either a back or front somersault can be easily
thrown. No. 1 grasps his left wrist with right hand; No. 2, same; each
then grasps the other’s right wrist with left hand, thus forming basket.
Fig. 103.


                            KNEE THREE HIGH.

77. No. 2 lifts No. 3 on shoulders, No. 1 then lifts No. 2 (and No. 3),
No. 3 straightens up and leans forward, No. 2 pulls head out and holds
No. 3 in position by ankles, No. 2 now raises up slightly and leans
forward and No. 1 pulls head out and, straightening up, completes the
knee three high. No. 3 jumps down and rolls over, followed by No. 2 and
No. 1 in quick succession. Figs. 104, 105, 106.

[Illustration]


                    KNEE THREE HIGH AND FRONTS OFF.

78. Build three high as in No. 77. No. 3 does a front off, then No. 2,
and No. 1 does a standing front. Fig. 107.


                              STILL MOUNT.
                           (For Three High.)

79. (The object is for No. 2 to mount to shoulders without moving No. 1
from his tracks. This should first be practiced a number of times on the
floor, and then on top of the horse or buck. When practicing a three
high the top mount should always have around his waist a belt suspended
from the ceiling the first few trials.) Facing each other and clasping
hands, No. 1 pulls No. 2 (who jumps) on his feet, hands above head; No.
2 places left hand on top of No. 1’s head, and clasps his right hand;
No. 2 bends left leg and places his foot in No. 1’s left hand; No. 1
pulls hard with right hand and lifts with left, No. 2 assisting himself
by pressing hard on No. 1’s head with left hand; No. 2 places right foot
on No. 1’s right shoulder and left foot on left shoulder, and comes to
an erect position. Figs. 108, 109, 110.


                              THREE HIGH.

80. No. 2 mounts to No. 1’s shoulders and grasps No. 3’s hands (Fig.
111) and pulls him to top of No. 1’s shoulders; No. 3 continues on up by
still mount. Lean and fall. Fig. 112.

[Illustration]




         EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS OF PROMINENT PHYSICAL DIRECTORS


                                                      New Haven, Conn.

  W. G. Anderson, Associate Director Yale University Gymnasium: “I
  believe in ‘tumbling’ as an exercise. It makes a man quick, agile,
  and very sure-footed. It is a form of sport that is popular and
  perfectly legitimate when properly taught. We have no good book on
  the subject, but need one. If such a work is to be presented to
  those interested in this subject, it ought to be written by a man
  who has had much experience in actual tumbling, who is familiar with
  the mechanism of the body, and who is educated. Dr. James T.
  Gwathmey, of Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn., is just the
  person to compile a book on this form of gymnastics. He is a clever
  performer, a teacher of wide experience, and an educated physician.
  I have looked over the MS. of the Doctor’s new book, and I indorse
  it.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                  McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

  R. Tait McKenzie, M.D.: “I am glad to find some one ready and able
  to draw the veil from a branch of gymnastics which the professional
  acrobat has so long kept shrouded in mystery. The reducing of the
  various feats of tumbling to a progressive sequence, and the
  analyzing of the various combinations, is indeed a difficult task;
  but your kinetoscope method of illustration will make clear what
  would otherwise require pages of description. Your work can not but
  assist any one of ordinary ability in mastering the rudiments of the
  art; but it will also appeal to the much wider field of all who
  admire acrobatics, and will give them some idea of the difficulties
  mastered by the professional, whose work they will more fully
  appreciate. I wish your book every success.”

[Illustration]

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                         Ithaca, N. Y.

  E. Hitchcock, Jr., M.D., Director of Department of Hygiene and
  Physical Training, Cornell University: “It has always seemed to me
  that this graphic method of instructing is the most useful, and I
  know that this subject in your hands will help enormously in
  instructing in a decidedly difficult branch of gymnastic work.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                        Amherst, Mass.

  E. Hitchcock, M.D., Amherst College, Pratt Gymnasium: “In physical
  education, as in many other branches of mental and bodily training,
  there are some advanced branches which are adapted to the few and
  not the many. Acrobatic work is one of these. But it should be
  controlled, cultivated, and made good use of, like the other work,
  which may be undertaken by anybody. It is a pleasure to know that a
  manual on this subject is to be prepared and furnished for our use
  by one so capable to issue the book as is Dr. Gwathmey, of
  Vanderbilt University. We shall wait impatiently to get hold of it.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                        Amherst, Mass.

  R. F. Nelligan, Instructor, Amherst College: “For sound men and boys
  tumbling is one of the best and most exhilarating of exercises, when
  practised under favorable conditions. Of course tumbling on a brick
  sidewalk differs from tumbling on a hair-stuffed mattress, with the
  aid of the safety appliances while learning. It has been said that
  one can not learn after reaching maturity. This is not so, as many
  first-class tumblers did not commence until after reaching
  twenty-five. At the age of thirty-two I was induced to take up
  tumbling under Dr. Gwathmey, and, with the aid of his safety
  appliances, succeeded in learning to do fairly well over fifty
  different movements and combinations.”

[Illustration]

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                      Kansas City, Mo.

  Carl Betz, Supervisor Music and Physical Training, Public Schools:
  “Your book, ‘Tumbling for Amateurs,’ which you have announced, will
  undoubtedly be hailed with delight by thousands of young American
  men who seek and find recreation in this particular kind of
  exercise. The photographs that will illuminate the pages of your
  book will be of intrinsic value to amateurs, who usually have no
  expert teacher to explain to them minutely each step of the
  exercise. If the element of danger in tumbling is greater than is
  consistent with the needs of physical education, as some claim it
  is, then your book, giving such minute instructions, and photographs
  of the body passing through the different stages of each exercise,
  cannot fail to reduce that danger to a degree which every
  interesting gymnastic exercise must contain. I therefore cheerfully
  recommend your interesting and timely little book to all who may
  wish to learn and practice the delightful pastime of tumbling.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                        St. Louis, Mo.

  William A. Stecher, Secretary Technical Committee, Nord
  Amerikanischer Turnerbund: “I think that your undertaking is a very
  commendable one; for I believe that the greater the control a person
  has over his body—and tumbling undoubtedly increases this—the better
  off he is. I wish you all success.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                       Milwaukee, Wis.

  Frank Pfister, M.D., Editor Mind and Body: “Received your favor of
  the 7th inst., and congratulate you upon the idea of publishing a
  manual on tumbling, for nothing recommendable exists in that line.”

[Illustration]

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                    Springfield, Mass.

  Luther Gulick, M.D. (“History of Physical Training”), International
  Y. M. C. A. Training-School: “Your letter of the 7th is at hand,
  with the excellent cuts that were inclosed. You ought not to charge
  less than one dollar for the book. I do not know but what you could
  get more. I shall be very glad to purchase a copy of the book as
  soon as it is published. Please let me know.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                         Chicago, Ill.

  G. W. Ehler, Physical Director of the Y. M. C. A. of Chicago,
  Central Department: “There is a necessity for a good book on
  tumbling, as there is none now in print to my knowledge; and I
  believe that such a book would meet with a very hearty reception by
  physical directors and by others who are interested.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                         Boston, Mass.

  Robert J. Roberts: “I approve of your idea of getting out such a
  book as you speak of. I would keep out the dangerous exercises; or,
  if you put them in, hedge them in so that amateurs will not use
  them. There is no kind of physical work that will so harmoniously
  develop every part of the body as tumbling.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                OFFICIAL RULES FOR ALL ATHLETIC SPORTS.


The following list contains the Group and the Number of the book of
Spalding’s Athletic Library in which the rules wanted are contained. See
front pages of book for complete list of Spalding’s Athletic Library.

 ═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╤═════╤═════
                           EVENT.                           │Group│ No.
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼─────┼─────
 All-Round Athletic Championship                            │   12│  182
 A. A. U. Athletic Rules                                    │   12│  311
 A. A. U. Boxing Rules                                      │   12│  311
 A. A. U. Gymnastic Rules                                   │   12│  311
 A. A. U. Water Polo Rules                                  │   12│  311
 A. A. U. Wrestling Rules                                   │   12│  311
 Archery                                                    │   11│  248
 Badminton                                                  │   11│  188
 Base Ball                                                  │    1│    1
   Indoor                                                   │    9│    9
 Basket Ball, Official                                      │    7│    7
   Collegiate                                               │    7│  312
   Women’s                                                  │    7│  318
   Water                                                    │   12│   55
 Basket Goal                                                │    6│  188
 Bat Ball                                                   │   12│   55
 Betting                                                    │   12│   55
 Bowling                                                    │    8│    8
 Boxing—A. A. U., Marquis of Queensbury, London Prize Ring  │   14│  162
 Broadsword (mounted)                                       │   12│   55
 Caledonian Games                                           │   12│   55
 Canoeing                                                   │   13│   23
 Children’s Games                                           │   11│  189
 Court Tennis                                               │   11│  194
 Cricket                                                    │    3│    3
 Croquet                                                    │   11│  138
 Curling                                                    │   11│   14
 Dog Racing                                                 │   12│   55
 Fencing                                                    │   14│  165
 Foot Ball                                                  │    2│    2
   Code of Rules                                            │    2│  334
   Association (Soccer)                                     │    2│   2A
   English Rugby                                            │   12│   55
   Canadian                                                 │    2│  332
 Golf                                                       │    5│    5
 Golf-Croquet                                               │    6│  188
 Hand Ball                                                  │   11│   13
 Hand Polo                                                  │   10│  188
 Hand Tennis                                                │   11│  194
 Hitch and Kick                                             │   12│   55
 Hockey                                                     │    6│  304
   Ice                                                      │    6│    6
   Field                                                    │    6│  154
   Garden                                                   │    6│  188
   Lawn                                                     │    6│  188
   Parlor                                                   │    6│  188
   Ring                                                     │   12│   55
   Ontario Hockey Ass’n                                     │    6│  256
 Indoor Base Ball                                           │    9│    9
 Intercollegiate A. A. A. A.                                │   12│  307
 I.-C. Gymnastic Ass’n                                      │   15│  333
 Lacrosse                                                   │   11│  201
 U. S. I.-C. Lacrosse League                                │   11│  337
 Lawn Bowls                                                 │   11│  207
 Lawn Games                                                 │   11│  188
 Lawn Tennis                                                │    4│    4
 Obstacle Races                                             │   12│   55
 Olympic Game Events—Marathon Race, Stone Throwing with     │     │
   Impetus, Spear Throwing, Hellenic Method of Throwing     │     │
   Discus. Discus, Greek Style for Youths                   │   12│   55
 Pigeon Flying                                              │   12│   55
 Pin Ball                                                   │   12│   55
 Playground Ball                                            │    1│  306
 Polo (Equestrian)                                          │   10│  199
 Polo, Rugby                                                │   12│   55
 Polo, Water (A. A. U.)                                     │   12│  311
 Potato Racing                                              │   12│  311
 Professional Racing, Sheffield Rules                       │   12│   55
 Public Schools Athletic League Athletic Rules              │   12│  313
   Girls’ Branch; including Rules for School Games          │   12│  314
 Push Ball                                                  │   11│  170
 Push Ball, Water                                           │   12│   55
 Quoits                                                     │   11│  167
 Racquets                                                   │   11│  194
 Revolver Shooting                                          │   12│   55
 Ring Hockey                                                │    6│  180
 Roller Polo                                                │   10│   10
 Roller Skating Rink                                        │   10│   10
 Roque                                                      │   11│  271
 Rowing                                                     │   13│  128
 Sack Racing                                                │   12│   55
 Shuffleboard                                               │   12│   55
 Skating                                                    │   13│  209
 Skittles                                                   │   12│   55
 Snowshoeing                                                │   12│   55
 Squash Racquets                                            │   11│  194
 Swimming                                                   │   13│  177
 Tether Tennis                                              │   11│  188
 Three-Legged Race                                          │   12│   55
 Volley Ball                                                │    6│  188
 Wall Scaling                                               │   12│   55
 Walking                                                    │   12│   55
 Water Polo (American)                                      │   12│  311
 Water Polo (English)                                       │   12│   55
 Wicket Polo                                                │   10│  188
 Wrestling                                                  │   14│  236
 Y. M. C. A. All-Round Test                                 │   12│  302
 Y. M. C. A. Athletic Rules                                 │   12│  302
 Y. M. C. A. Hand Ball Rules                                │   12│  302
 Y. M. C. A. Pentathlon Rules                               │   12│  302
 Y. M. C. A. Volley Ball Rules                              │   12│  302
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴─────┴─────




[Illustration: ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE THE SPALDING TRADE MARK GUARANTEES
QUALITY]




               Spalding New and Improved Worsted Jerseys


 Following sizes carried in stock regularly in all qualities: 28 to 44
                              inch chest.
                   Other sizes at an advanced price.

[Illustration: Jerseys are being used more and more by base ball
players, especially for early Spring and late Fall games. The Spalding
line includes a complete assortment of styles and qualities.]

_We allow two inches for stretch in all our Jerseys, and sizes are
marked accordingly. It is suggested, however, that for very heavy men a
size about two inches larger than coat measurement be ordered to insure
a comfortable fit._

STOCK COLORS =PLAIN COLORS=—The following stock colors are supplied in
our worsted jerseys (NOT Nos. 6 or 6X) at regular prices. Other colors
to order only in any quality (EXCEPT Nos. 6 and 6X), =25c.= each extra.

                             Gray
                             Orange
                             Black
                             White
                             Maroon
                             Scarlet
                             Cardinal
                             Navy Blue
                             Royal Blue
                             Columbia Blue
                             Peacock Blue
                             Dark Green
                             Olive Green
                             Irish Green
                             Pink
                             Purple
                             Yellow
                             Seal Brown
                             Old Gold
                             Drab

 No. =1P=.     Full regular made; that is,
                 fashioned or knit to exact
                 shape on the machine and
                 then put together by hand,
                 altogether different from
                 cutting them out of a piece
                 of material and sewing them
                 up on a machine as are the
                 majority of garments known
                 as Jerseys. Special quality
                 worsted. Solid stock
                 colors.                         Each,           =$4.50=
 No. =10P=.    Worsted, fashioned. Solid
                 stock colors,                   Each,           =$3.00=
 No. =12P=.    Worsted; solid stock colors.      Each,           =$2.75=
 No. =12XB=.   Boys’ Jersey. Worsted.
                 Furnished in sizes 26 to 36
                 inches chest measurement
                 only. Solid stock colors
                 only. No special orders.        Each,           =$2.00=

[Illustration: Nos =1P=, =10P= and =12P=]

[Illustration]

  =SPECIAL NOTICE= _We will furnish any of the above solid color
    Jerseys, (except Nos. 6 and 6X) with one color body and another
    color (not striped) collar and cuffs in stock colors only at no
    extra charge._


                        Spalding Cotton Jerseys

 No. =6=.      Cotton, good quality,
                 fashioned, roll collar,
                 full length sleeves.
                 Colors: Black, Navy Blue,
                 Gray and Maroon only.           Each.           =$1.00=
 No. =6X=.     Cotton, same as No. 6, but
                 with striped sleeves in
                 following combinations
                 only: Navy with White or
                 Red stripe; Black with
                 Orange or Red stripe;
                 Maroon with White stripe.       Each.           =$1.25=


                   Woven Letters, Numerals or Designs


  _We weave into our best grade Jerseys. No. 1P. Letters, Numerals and
  Designs in special colors as desired. Prices quoted on application.
                          Designs submitted._

                PRICES SUBJECT TO ADVANCE WITHOUT NOTICE




                         Spalding Coat Jerseys


 Following sizes carried in stock regularly in all qualities: 28 to 44
             inch chest. Other sizes at an advanced price.

 _We allow two inches for stretch in all our Jerseys, and sizes are
    marked accordingly._

 _It is suggested, however, that for very heavy men a size about two
    inches larger than coat measurement be ordered to insure a
    comfortable fit._


                              STOCK COLORS

                             Gray
                             Orange
                             Black
                             White
                             Maroon
                             Scarlet
                             Cardinal
                             Navy
                             Royal Blue
                             Columbia Blue
                             Peacock Blue
                             Dark Green
                             Olive Green
                             Irish Green
                             Pink
                             Purple
                             Yellow
                             Seal Brown
                             Old Gold
                             Drab

    =PLAIN COLORS=—The above stock colors are supplied in our worsted
 jerseys (NOT Nos. 6 or 6X) at regular prices. Other colors to order only
         in any quality (EXCEPT Nos. 6 or 6X) =25c.= each extra.

 =STRIPES AND TRIMMINGS=—Supplied as specified in any of the above stock
   colors (not more than two colors in any garment) at regular prices.
  Other colors to order only in any quality (EXCEPT Nos. 6 or 6X) =25c.=
                               each extra.

[Illustration: Nos. 10C and 12C]

[Illustration: No. 10CP]

The Spalding Coat Jerseys are made of the same worsted yarn from which
we manufacture our better grade Jerseys, Nos. 10P and 12P, and no pains
have been spared to turn them out in a well made and attractive manner.
Plain solid stock colors (not striped) or one solid stock color body and
sleeves with different stock color solid trimming (not striped) on
cuffs, collar and front edging. Pearl buttons.

 No. =10=C.    Same grade as our No. 10P.        Each,           =$3.50=
 No. =12=C.    Same grade as our No. 12P.        Each,           =$3.00=
 No. =10=CP.   Pockets, otherwise same as
                 No. 10C.                        Each,           =$4.25=

                  *       *       *       *       *


                  Spalding Striped and V-Neck Jerseys

                   _Note list of stock colors above_

[Illustration: Nos. 10PW and 12PW]

[Illustration: No. 12PV]

[Illustration: Nos. 10PX and 12PX]

 No. =10=PW.   Good quality worsted, same
                 grade as No. 10P. Solid
                 stock color body and
                 sleeves, with 6–inch stock
                 color stripe around body.       Each,           =$3.50=
 No. =12=PW.   Worsted, solid stock color
                 body and sleeves with
                 6–inch stock color stripe
                 around body.                    Each,           =$3.00=
 No. =10=PX.   Good quality worsted,
                 fashioned; solid stock
                 color body, with stock
                 color striped sleeves,
                 usually alternating two
                 inches of same color as
                 body, with narrow stripes
                 of any other stock color.       Each,           =$3.50=
 No. =12=PV.   Worsted, solid stock colors,
                 with V-neck instead of full
                 collar as on regular
                 jerseys.                        Each,           =$3.00=
 No. =12=PX.   Worsted, solid stock color
                 body, with stock color
                 striped sleeves, usually
                 alternating two inches of
                 same color as body, with
                 narrow stripes of any other
                 stock color.                    Each,           =$3.00=

                PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE




                   =SPALDING= _Automobile_ =SWEATER=


[Illustration]

[Illustration: Collar Turned Up]

[Illustration: Collar Turned Down]

No. =WJ=. Most satisfactory and comfortable style for automobilists;
also useful for training purposes, reducing weight, tramping during cold
weather, golfing, shooting, tobogganing, snowshoeing; in fact, for every
purpose where a garment is required to give protection from cold or
inclement weather. High collar that may be turned down, changing it into
neatest form of button front sweater. Highest quality special heavy
weight worsted. Sizes, 28 to 44 inches. In stock colors. Each, =$8.50=

  =PLAIN COLORS=—All Spalding Sweaters are supplied in any of the colors
    designated, at regular prices. Other colors to order only in any
    quality, 50c. each garment extra.

  =SPECIAL NOTICE=—We will furnish any of the solid color sweaters with
    one color body and another color (not striped) collar and culls in
    stock colors only at no extra charge. N. B.—We designate three
    shades which are sometimes called RED: These are Scarlet, Cardinal
    and Maroon. Where RED is specified on order Scarlet will be
    supplied.


                              STOCK COLORS

                             Gray
                             Orange
                             Black
                             White
                             Maroon
                             Scarlet
                             Cardinal
                             Navy
                             Royal Blue
                             Columbia Blue
                             Peacock Blue
                             Dark Green
                             Olive Green
                             Irish Green
                             Pink
                             Purple
                             Yellow
                             Seal Brown
                             Old Gold
                             Drab


                  Spalding “Highest Quality” Sweaters

[Illustration]

_We allow four inches for stretch in all our sweaters, and sizes are
marked accordingly. It is suggested, however, that for very heavy men a
size about two inches larger than coat measurement be ordered to insure
a comfortable fit._

WORSTED SWEATERS. Made of special quality wool, and exceedingly soft and
pleasant to wear. They are full fashioned to body and arms and put
together by hand, not simply stitched up on a machine as are the
majority of garments sold as regular made goods.

         _All made with 9–inch collars; sizes 28 to 44 inches._

 No. =AA=.     The proper style for use
                 after heavy exercise,
                 inducing copious
                 perspiration, for reducing
                 weight or getting into
                 condition for athletic
                 contests. Particularly
                 suitable also for Foot Ball
                 and Skating. Heaviest
                 sweater made. In stock
                 colors.                         Each,           =$9.00=
 No. =A=.      “Intercollegiate.” In stock
                 colors. Special weight.           „              =7.00=
 No. =B=.      Heavy weight. In stock
                 colors.                           „              =6.00=


         Spalding Combined Knitted Muffler and Chest Protector

[Illustration: Front View]

[Illustration: Back View]

 No. =M=.      Special weight; highest
                 quality worsted in solid
                 stock colors to match our
                 sweaters.                       Each,           =$1.25=


                            Shaker  Sweater

[Illustration:

  In Stock Colors

  Sizes 30 to 44 in.
]

Fills a demand for as heavy a weight as our “Highest Quality” grade, but
at a lower price.

 No. =3=.      Standard weight, slightly
                 lighter than No. B.             Each,           =$4.00=


                      Spalding Vest Collar Sweater

[Illustration]

 No. =BG=.     Best quality worsted, good
                 weight; with extreme open
                 or low neck. In stock
                 colors.                         Each,           =$6.00=

                PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE




                        SPALDING JACKET SWEATERS


                              STOCK COLORS

PLAIN COLORS—All Spalding Sweaters are supplied in any of the following
stock colors at regular prices. Other colors to order only in any
quality 50c. each extra.

                             GRAY
                             ORANGE
                             BLACK
                             WHITE
                             MAROON
                             SCARLET
                             CARDINAL
                             NAVY BLUE
                             ROYAL BLUE
                             COLUMBIA BLUE
                             PEACOCK BLUE
                             DARK GREEN
                             OLIVE GREEN
                             IRISH GREEN
                             PINK
                             PURPLE
                             YELLOW
                             SEAL BROWN
                             OLD GOLD
                             DRAB

SPECIAL NOTICE—We will furnish any of the solid color sweaters mentioned
below with one color body and another color (not striped) collar and
cuffs in stock colors only at no extra charge. This does not apply to
the No. 3JB Boys’ Sweater.

_Sizes 28 to 44 inch chest measurement. We allow four inches for stretch
in all our sweaters, and sizes are marked accordingly. It is suggested,
however, that for very heavy men a size about two inches larger than
coat measurement be ordered to insure a comfortable fit._

[Illustration: No. VGP]

[Illustration: No. VG. Showing special trimmed edging and cuffs
supplied, if desired, on jacket sweaters at no extra charge.]


                              BUTTON FRONT

 No. =VG=.     Best quality worsted, heavy
                 weight, pearl buttons. Made
                 in regular stock colors,
                 also in Dark Brown Mixture.     Each,           =$7.00=
 No. =DJ=.     Fine worsted, standard
                 weight, pearl buttons, fine
                 knit edging. Made in
                 regular stock colors, also
                 in Sage Gray.                   Each,           =$6.00=
 No. =3J=.     Standard weight wool, Shaker
                 knit, pearl buttons. In
                 stock colors.                   Each,           =$5.00=


                              WITH POCKETS

 No. =VGP=.    Best quality worsted, heavy
                 weight, pearl buttons. In
                 stock colors. With pocket
                 on either side and a
                 particularly convenient and
                 popular style for golf
                 players.                        Each,           =$7.50=

                  *       *       *       *       *


                  Spalding Special Base Ball Sweaters

          No. =CDW=. Good quality worsted, ribbed knit. In stock colors.
            Special trimmed edging and cuffs in stock colors supplied at
            no extra charge. Each, =$5.50=

[Illustration: No. CDW]

[Illustration: No. 3JB]


                          Boys’ Jacket Sweater

 No. =3JB=.    This is an all wool jacket
                 sweater, with pearl
                 buttons; furnished only in
                 sizes from 30 to 36 inches
                 chest measurement. In stock
                 colors.                         Each,           =$3.50=

                  *       *       *       *       *


                       Spalding Ladies’ Sweaters

[Illustration]

Knit in the Spalding athletic stitch of best quality long fibre worsted;
full fashioned to shape of body on special machine and finished by hand.
Cuffs, pocket and edging of special stitch. Good quality pearl buttons.
Patch pockets. Attractive in appearance and, being properly made, they
fit well and give satisfactory wear. Furnished in regular stock colors.

 No. =LDJ=.    Ladies’ Sweater, regular
                 button front.                   Each,           =$8.00=
 No. =LWJ=.    With special reversible
                 collar, as on our Men’s No.
                 WJ Automobile Sweater.          Each,         =$10.00=.




                        SPALDING GYMNASIUM SHOES


[Illustration: No. 15]

[Illustration: No. 155]

[Illustration: No. 166]

[Illustration: No. 90L]

 No. =15=.     High cut, Kangaroo, elkskin
                 sole, extra light, hand
                 made                          Per pair,         =$5.00=
 No. =155=.    High cut, Elkskin sole, soft
                 and flexible; in ladies’
                 and men’s sizes.                  „              =4.50=
 No. =166=.    Low cut, selected leather,
                 extra light and electric
                 sole; ladies’ and men’s
                 sizes.                            „              =3.00=
 No. =90L=.    Ladies’. Low cut, black
                 leather, electric sole and
                 corrugated rubber heel.           „              =2.00=
 No. =85L=.    Ladies’. Low cut, black
                 leather, roughened electric
                 sole.                             „              =2.00=
 No. =19=.     Low cut, horse hide leather,
                 flexible oak sole,
                 roughened.                        „              =2.00=
 No. =19L=.    Ladies’. Otherwise as No. 19.       „              =2.00=
 No. =21=.     High cut, black leather,
                 electric sole.                    „              =2.00=
 No. =20=.     Low cut. Otherwise as No. 21.       „              =1.75=
 No. =20L=.    Ladies’. Otherwise as No. 20.       „              =1.75=


             Spalding Ladies’ Gymnasium Shoes—Flexible Soles

 No. =BHL=.    Good quality selected
                 leather, black color, with
                 elkskin sole, high cut.       Per pair,         =$1.50=
 No. =PL=.     Elkskin, pearl color, elkskin
                 soles, high cut.                  „              =1.50=
 No. =OPL=.    Same as No. PL, except low
                 cut.                            Pair,            =1.25=
 No. =OHL=.    Same as No. BHL, but low cut.       „              =1.25=
 No. =SL=.     Selected drab color leather,
                 high cut.                         „              =1.00=
 No. =OSL=.    Same as No. SL, except low
                 cut.                              „               =.90=


                Spalding Canvas Shoes with Rubber Soles

[Illustration: No. IH]

                                  MEN’S

                       _Sizes 6 to 12 inclusive._

 No. =IH=.     High cut, best quality white
                 rubber soles. Men’s of
                 white canvas, ladies’ of
                 black.                        Per pair,         =$1.75=
 No. =I=.      Low cut. Otherwise as No. IH.       „              =1.50=
 No. =M=.      High cut.                           „              =1.00=
 No. =K=.      Low cut.                            „               =.85=


                                  BOYS’

                       _Sizes 2½ to 5½ inclusive._

 No. =IHB=.    High cut, best quality white
                 rubber soles. Boys’ of
                 white canvas, girls’ of
                 black.                        Per pair,         =$1.50=
 No. =IB=.     Low cut. Otherwise as No.
                 IHB.                          Per pair,         =$1.25=
 No. =MS=.     High cut.                                           =.90=
 No. =KB=.     Low cut.                                            =.75=


                                 YOUTHS’

                       _Sizes 11 to 2 inclusive._

 No. =IHX=.    High cut, best quality white
                 rubber soles. Youths’ of
                 white canvas, misses’ of
                 black.                        Per pair,         =$1.25=
 No. =IX=.     Low cut. Otherwise as No.
                 IHX.                                            =$1.10=
 No. =MX=.     High cut.                                           =.75=
 No. =KX=.     Low cut.                                            =.65=

 No. =E=.      Low cut canvas shoe, canvas
                 sole. Very popular for
                 gymnasium.                    Per pair,           =.35=




                  Juvenile Gymnasium Shoes—All Leather


 No. =86=.     Low cut, good quality, black
                 leather, roughened electric
                 sole. Sizes 12 to 5
                 inclusive, only.              Per pair,         =$1.50=


                    SPALDING IMPROVED MEDICINE BALLS

[Illustration]

             An excellent form of exercise for business men

[Illustration]

Weigh from four to eleven pounds. The covering is of selected tan
leather, sewn in the same manner as our foot balls. Quality throughout
has been much improved and the balls as now made are extremely durable.
The exercise consists of throwing ball to one another, and the catching
of it develops the chest, exercises the back, arms, legs; in fact,
improves the whole system.

 No. =11=.     4–pound Ball.                     Each,           =$5.00=
 No. =12=.     6–pound Ball.                       „              =6.00=
 No. =13=.     9–pound Ball.                       „              =7.00=
 No. =14=.     11–pound Ball.                      „             =10.00=

                  *       *       *       *       *


                             Home Apparatus

“One of the aims of physical training is to make exercise interesting
and enjoyable. To be beneficial in the highest sense it must be
recreative. Particularly is this true of physical exercise for
business men. As a class, in their daily work, they are kept on a
constant mental strain. Besides, they are, to a large degree,
physically inactive. Life becomes too intense, too serious, too
sordid. Exercise therefore, for business men, must be largely
recreative, relaxing and restful.”—_Extract from Spalding Athletic
Library, No. 262—“Exercises with the Medicine Ball.”_


                          SPALDING HAND BALLS

   =Hand ball, played indoors, will keep base ball players and other
 athletes in good condition during hard weather when outdoor athletics
                       are out of the question.=

 The leather covered hand balls we make are wound by hand, and are the
                                same as
          those used by the best ball players in this country.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

 No. =1=.      Match, regulation size and
                 weight, leather cover.          Each,           =$1.25=
 No. =2=.      Expert, leather cover.              „               =.85=
 No. =6=.      Rubber, best quality, almost
                 solid.                            „               =.40=
 No. =4=.      Amateur, leather cover.             „               =.25=
 No. =5=.      Rubber hand ball.                   „               =.25=

 The Irish Regulation Balls have been improved in quality and will give
                        excellent satisfaction.

               RED ACE, IRISH REGULATION red
                 rubber ball.                    Each,            =50c.=
               BLACK ACE, IRISH REGULATION
                 black rubber ball.                „              =50c.=

                  *       *       *       *       *

 =For other balls suitable for Hand Ball Game, see page devoted to Lawn
                             Tennis Balls.=

[Illustration]

[Illustration]


                  Spalding Hand Ball Gloves and Mitts

 No. =A=.      Gloves. Best quality glove
                 leather with stitched front
                 and special wrist pad.          Pair,           =$4.00=
 No. =B=.      Mitts. Lightly padded.                             =3.00=
 No. =C=.      Gloves. Full fingered.                             =4.50=
 No. =D=.      Fingerless Gloves.                                  =.75=




                            Sandow’s Patent
                         Spring Grip Dumb Bells


[Illustration: EUGEN SANDOW, Patentee.]

                  *       *       *       *       *

                         A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

                  SOLE AMERICAN AND CANADIAN LICENSEES

An entire system of Physical Culture is embraced within the exercises
possible with these wonderful dumb bells.

The bells are made in two halves connected by steel springs, the effort
necessary in gripping compelling the pupil to continually devote his
whole mind to each movement. This concentration of will power on each
muscle involved is what is responsible for the great results obtained
through properly exercising with them.


                 Sandow’s Patent Spring Grip Dumb Bells

 No. =6=.      =MEN’S.= Nickel-plated;
                 fitted with seven steel
                 springs.                      Per pair,         =$3.00=
 No. =4=.      =LADIES’.= Nickel-plated;
                 fitted with five steel
                 springs.                      Per pair,         =$2.50=
 No. =2=.      =BOYS’.= Nickel-plated;
                 fitted with four steel
                 springs.                      Per pair,         =$2.00=

                  *       *       *       *       *

We include with each pair of Sandow Dumb Bells a chart of exercises by
Sandow and full instructions for using. Also a piece of selvyt cloth for
keeping dumb bells in good condition.

[Illustration: No. 6. MEN’S]

[Illustration: No. 4. LADIES’]

[Illustration: No. 2. BOYS’]

[Illustration]


                             Home Apparatus

“It is not so important to have big muscles as it is to have good
digestion; it is not so important to have powerful muscles as it is to
have a strong, regular heart; it is not so important to have great skill
with one’s muscles as to have good lungs and kidneys.”—_Extract from
Spalding Athletic Library No. 161—“Ten Minutes Exercise for Busy Men.”_

The value of a few minutes’ exercise daily with scientific and properly
designed apparatus, is rapidly becoming apparent to the vast number of
business men who find it simply impossible to take regular outdoor
exercise.


                    Spalding Gold Medal Indian Clubs

           =Model, material and finish as perfect as the most
            complete and up-to-date factory can make them.=

             _Natural Color, Lathe Polished, High Finish._

[Illustration: Model E]

[Illustration: Model B]

Spalding Gold Medal Indian Clubs are made of selected first grade clear
maple, in two popular models and are perfect in balance. Each club bears
fac-simile of the Spalding Gold Medal. Each pair is wrapped in paper
bag.


                               =MODEL E=

                 _Weights specified are for each club._

               ½ lb. Model E.                    Pair,           =$ .60=
               ¾ lb. Model E.                      „               =.60=
               1  lb. Model E.                     „               =.70=
               1½ lb. Model E.                     „               =.80=
               2  lb. Model E.                     „              =1.00=
               3  lb. Model E.                     „              =1.20=


                               =MODEL  B=

                 _Weights specified are for each club._

               ½ lb. Model B.                    Pair,            =$.50=
               ¾ lb. Model B.                      „               =.50=
               1  lb. Model B.                     „               =.55=
               1½ lb. Model B.                     „               =.60=
               2  lb. Model B.                     „               =.70=
               3  lb. Model B.                     „              =1.00=


                    Spalding Trade-Mark Indian Clubs

                            Stained Finish.

[Illustration: Model ES]

[Illustration: Model BS]

The following clubs bear our Trade-Mark, are made of good material, and
are far superior in shape and finish to the best clubs of other makes.
Furnished in two popular models. Each pair wrapped in paper bag.


                                MODEL ES

                 _Weights specified are for each club._

               ½ lb. Model ES.                   Pair,            =$.35=
               ¾ lb. Model ES.                     „               =.35=
               1  lb. Model ES.                    „               =.40=
               1½ lb. Model ES.                    „               =.50=
               2  lb. Model ES.                    „               =.60=
               3  lb. Model ES.                    „               =.70=


                                MODEL BS

                 _Weights specified are for each club._

               ½ lb. Model BS.                   Pair,            =$.30=
               ¾ lb. Model BS.                     „               =.30=
               1  lb. Model BS.                    „               =.35=
               1½ lb. Model BS.                    „               =.45=
               2  lb. Model BS.                    „               =.55=
               3  lb. Model BS.                    „               =.65=

                  *       *       *       *       *


                       Spalding Exhibition Clubs

[Illustration: No. A]

[Illustration: No. AA]

Handsomely finished in ebonite and made for exhibition and stage
purposes. The clubs are hollow, with a large body, and although
extremely light, represent a club weighing three pounds or more.

 No. =A=.      Ebonite finish.                                   =$3.50=
 No. =AA=.     With German Silver Bands.         Pair,           =$5.00=

                  *       *       *       *       *


               Spalding Indian Club and Dumb Bell Hangers

[Illustration: No. 1]

Made of iron and nicely japanned.

 No. =1=.      For Indian Clubs or Dumb
                 Bells.                        Per pair,          =16c.=
 No. =1M=.     For Indian Clubs or Dumb
                 Bells, mounted on oak
                 strips.                       Per pair,          =25c.=




                  Spalding Gold Medal Wood Dumb Bells


[Illustration]

  There is Skill Used in Turning Spalding Dumb Bells. They Feel Right
                          Because They Are So

               Natural Color, Lathe Polished, High Finish

[Illustration: Model A]

Spalding Gold Medal Dumb Bells are made of selected first grade clear
maple, and are perfect in balance. Each bell bears fac-simile of the
Spalding Gold Medal. Each pair is wrapped in paper bag. Weights
specified are for each bell.

                       ½ lb.  ¾ lb.  1 lb. 1½ lb.  2 lb.
                Pair, =40c.= =45c.= =50c.= =55c.= =65c.=


                  Spalding Trade-Mark Wood Dumb Bells

                             Stained Finish

[Illustration: Model AW]

Spalding Trade-Mark quality. Made of good material and superior in shape
and finish to the best wood dumb bells of other makes. Each pair wrapped
in paper bag. Weights specified are for each bell.

                       ½ lb.  ¾ lb.  1 lb. 1½ lb.  2 lb.
                Pair, =30c.= =30c.= =35c.= =45c.= =55c.=


                        Spalding Iron Dumb Bells

[Illustration]

Made on approved models, nicely balanced and finished in black enamel.

               Sizes 2 to 40 pounds,                               =6c.=
               Over 40 pounds,                                     =8c.=
               Bar Bells, any weight,
                 wrought iron handles, any
                 length made specially.         Pound,            =10c.=


                   Spalding Nickel-Plated Dumb Bells

[Illustration: Nickel-plated and polished.]

 =1N.=                                           1 lb.            =$.25=
 =2N.=                                           2 lb.             =.50=
 =3N.=                                           3 lb.             =.65=
 =4N.=                                           4 lb.             =.75=
 =5N.=                                           5 lb.            =1.00=


                   Spalding Nickel-Plated Dumb Bells

[Illustration:

  With Rubber Bands

  Nickel-plated and polished.
]

 =1B.=                                           1 lb.            =$.65=
 =2B.=                                           2 lb.             =.75=
 =3B.=                                           3 lb.            =1.00=
 =4B.=                                           4 lb.            =1.15=
 =5B.=                                           5 lb.            =1.25=


     =Savage Bar Bell=—Especially designed by DR. WATSON L. SAVAGE.

[Illustration]

=Model S.= Has large pear shaped ends with a flexible hickory shaft ½
inch in diameter, producing a vibratory exercise, similar to that
obtained with the French wand. Per dozen, =$6.00=


                         Spalding Ash Bar Bells

[Illustration]

 No. =2=.      Selected material, highly
                 polished, 5 feet long.       Per dozen,         =$5.00=


                          Spalding School Wand

[Illustration]

 No. =3=.      3½ feet long. Made of
                 straight grain maple.        Per dozen,         =$1.30=


                       Spalding Calisthenic Wand

[Illustration]

 No. =4=.      4½ feet long. 1 inch
                 diameter.                    Per dozen,         =$1.60=


                             Home Apparatus

“If a Man gets plenty of food, and his digestive apparatus works it up
into good rich blood; if the heart is strong and regular so that this
good blood goes to all parts of the body with vigor and regularity, and
if the respiratory and excretory apparatus is in such good order that
this blood is kept pure, the fundamental conditions of health are
laid.”—_“Extracts from Spalding Athletic Library No. 161.”—“Ten Minutes’
Exercise for Busy Men.”_

Rational exercise with simple but correct apparatus will enable almost
any man to arrive at approximately a correct state of health.




 THE SPALDING TRADE-MARK IS PLACED UPON EVERY GENUINE SPALDING ARTICLE.
                         ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.




                        Spalding Home Apparatus


[Illustration]

Exercise acts on the health of an individual in the same way as the
draught does on the fire in a furnace. Pile on the coal and shut off the
draught and you kill the fire. Continue to eat heavy meals and take no
exercise and your health will be affected, not because of the food you
have eaten so much as on account of the lack of exercise. A little
exercise is all that is necessary to keep you in good condition. Some
rational, pleasant and interesting exercise, persisted in with
regularity and, preferably, with Spalding Home Apparatus, will help you
to retain your health.

[Illustration: Spalding Chest Weight No. 2]

An ideal machine for home use. Well made and easy running. Rods are
⅜-inch coppered spring steel. Bearings are hardened steel cone points
running in soft, gray iron, noiseless and durable. Weight carriage
packed with felt, good for long wear, but easily removed and replaced
when necessary without the use of glue or wedges of any kind. Weight
carriage strikes on rubber bumpers. Weights are 5–pound iron dumb-bells,
one to each carriage, and may be removed and used as dumb bells. Wall
and floor boards are hard wood, nicely finished and stained. All
castings heavily japanned. Every part of machine guaranteed free of
defect.

 No. =2=.                                        Each,           =$5.00=


                      Spalding Chest Weight No. 12

[Illustration]

[Illustration: Showing important details of Construction of No. 12
Machine.]

We have just added this very well made machine to our line. Cast iron
parts are all nicely japanned. The wheels are iron, turned true on
centers, and have hardened steel cone point bearings. The guide rods are
spring steel, copper-plated. The weight carriage has removable felt
bushings, noiseless and durable. Each handle is equipped with 10 lbs. of
weights.

 No.  =12=.                                      Each,          =$10.00=


                   The Laflin Friction Rowing Machine

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Do not use oil on friction cylinder. If its action is not perfectly
smooth a little clear soap rubbed on its surface will properly correct
its action. The means used to produce the resistance is a simple
friction clutch, which takes instant hold at the commencement of the
stroke and retains the pressure till its completion, when it instantly
releases it precisely as in a boat. Quickly taken apart without
loosening any bolts or screws. Each machine is adjustable to any amount
of friction or resistance.

 No. =119=.                                    Complete,        =$16.00=


                             Home Apparatus

The apparatus listed in this catalogue is designed particularly for
private use; i. e., in homes and private gymnasiums. It retains the same
superior marks of quality which distinguish the regular line of
gymnasium apparatus manufactured by A. G. Spalding & Bros., but its
distinctive design permits it to be sold at a price more in keeping with
its use than heretofore obtainable, without any sacrifice of practical
value or durability.


                         Kerns’ Rowing Machine


      Suitable alike for the Athlete or the ordinary Man or Woman

[Illustration: Operated just like rowing a boat]

The ideal boat for home use and training purposes. Used by the leading
athletic clubs, colleges and prominent oarsmen of the world, and
pronounced the most perfect rowing machine ever produced. Fitted with
the Kerns’ Patent Roller Seat and Shoes, the shoes having a three-inch
adjustment, to suit either a tall or a short person. By turning a
thumb-nut the belt can be tightened to any desired degree, and more or
less friction thrown into the running parts, imitating the resistance
which exists when forcing a row-boat through the water. The weaker sex
can use the machine by simply loosening the thumb-nut which reduces the
resistance; and on the other hand, by reversing the operation the
resistance can be so increased that the strongest athlete can have any
amount of resistance. The oars are pivoted in such a way that the
operator can handle and turn them the same as he would during the return
and feathering motion with a boat oar.

 No. 600.      Kerns’ Patent Single Scull
                 Rowing Machine                  Each,            $30.00


                The Spalding Automatic Abdominal Masseur

    A Safe and Sure Cure for Constipation and Other Kindred Ailments

[Illustration]

Useful for treatment of constipation, based upon the principle of
muscular contraction (the force which nature uses). By its mechanical
arrangement, it effectually applies force in the same direction that
nature does, and will gradually discard the use of cathartics. Only a
few moments’ use at the proper time is necessary before its effects will
be felt. Its action upon the liver and stomach is equally as prompt and
effective, and derangements of these organs are speedily remedied.

          N. E. cor. 15th and Locust Sts., Philadelphia, Pa.
  A. G. SPALDING & BROS.        May 24th, 1906.

  Gentlemen: I have used the Spalding Automatic Abdominal Masseur in my
    practice for over fifteen years. I have found it of great benefit in
    chronic constipation and indigestion. Your improvement increases its
    value.

                             Very truly yours,      WALTER A. FORD, M.D.

               The Spalding Abdominal
                 Automatic Masseur.            Complete,        =$10.00=


                     Spalding Home Gymnasium Board

            =A Complete Gymnasium for the Home on one Board=

[Illustration]

Convenient, does not take up much room, is always ready, and is really
the most compact, simplest and best arrangement for providing a complete
set of home exercising apparatus that has ever been devised.—CONSISTS OF

               Board with attachments for
                 fastening to floor of room
                 so that walls need not be
                 marred.                                        =$10.00=
               Spalding Abdominal Masseur.                       =10.00=
 No. PR        Spalding Adjustable Striking
                 Bag Disk.                                        =5.00=
 No. 2         Spalding Chest Weight
                 Machine, including pair of
                 5–lb. Dumb Bells.                                =5.00=
 No. 14        Spalding Striking Bag.                             =1.50=
                                                               —————————
               Complete, all attached,                         =$31.50.=
               _Board itself will be
                 furnished separately if
                 desired._                       Each,          =$10.00=

Board only is fastened to floor. Braces padded with leather, so that
walls will not be damaged. Can be put up in any room with a ceiling 8
ft. high. As the complete outfit is made up and carried in stock by us,
equipped as noted above, we cannot supply board with different articles
already attached.


               Leather Covered Shot—For Abdominal Massage

[Illustration]

 No. =A=.      Consists of an iron ball,
                 which is wound with
                 electric tape and is then
                 covered with a very soft
                 and smooth grade of
                 horsehide. It is made in
                 either 6 or 8 lbs. weight.      Each,           =$5.00=


                          Spalding Bar Stalls

[Illustration]

This apparatus is particularly adapted for use in the home, as it is
compact, of simple construction, and may be used for the greatest
variety of movements affecting every part of the body, and especially
abdomen and chest movements. May be erected against wall, behind a door,
or against any other flat surface. Dimensions are eight feet high,
thirty-six inches wide and extends six inches into the room.

 No. =20H=.    For home use.                 Per section.        =$8.00=


                        Spalding Bar Stall Bench

[Illustration]

Hard pine, strong and substantial. Top is padded with hair felt, canvas
covered. It is preferable, for sanitary reasons, that this canvas be
painted (a special elastic paint is used), unless otherwise specified,
stock benches will be so furnished.

 No. =205=.    Single.                            Ea,            =$4.00=




                    The Spalding Championship Gloves


              Used and Endorsed by Champions of the World

[Illustration: No. 118 No. 116 No. 115]

The Spalding “Championship” Gloves are endorsed by all champions and
have been exclusively used for years in championship contests and in
training. The material and workmanship are of the highest quality, the
fit is perfect, and by their peculiar construction absolutely prevent
any chance of injury to the hands or wrists. Each set is carefully
inspected before packing and guaranteed in every particular. Made in
three sizes in sets of four gloves.

 No. =115=.    The Spalding 5–oz.             Per set of
                 “Championship” Glove.       four gloves,        =$6.00=
 No. =116=.    The Spalding 6–oz.             Per set of
                 “Championship” Glove.       four gloves,        =$6.00=
 No. =118=.    The Spalding 8–oz.             Per set of
                 “Championship” Glove.       four gloves,          $6.50


                     =Spalding “Special”= No. =218=

Same style as our “Championship” 8–oz. Gloves, but not same quality
material and workmanship.

 No. =218=.                                   Per set of
                                             four gloves,        =$4.50=


              Spalding “Navy Special” Championship Gloves

                   Used by the Champions of the Navy

[Illustration:

  BURNS vs. JOHNSON SPALDING GLOVES USED

  Kerry Copyright.
]

[Illustration:

  BOXING IN THE NAVY

  COPYRIGHT, 1905, BY G. W. FAWCETT
]

These gloves are made of a special “sea green” leather, of particularly
durable quality. Furnished in 8–oz. only, similar in style to No. 118,
and with padded wrist.

 No. =18N=.    Per set of four gloves,                           =$5.00=


                     Spalding Pupil’s Boxing Gloves

[Illustration: Spalding Pupil’s Boxing Glove]

[Illustration: Padding on Wrist and Forearm]

Acting on the suggestion of one of the most prominent athletic officials
in this country, we decided recently to get up a boxing glove that would
be an aid to the pupil learning to box. This glove is additionally
padded on the forearm and over the wrist, to prevent that soreness which
is one of the most discouraging features following a brisk lesson in the
art of “blocking.” The glove part is well padded with curled hair, the
leather being best quality soft tanned.

 No. =110=.                                   Per set of
                                             four gloves,        =$6.00=


                       The Spalding Instructors’
                             Gloves, 10–oz.

[Illustration]

Made of best grade brown glove leather, extra heavily padded over the
knuckles and with special large padded thumb to prevent injury to either
instructor or pupil. Laces extra far to provide ample ventilation and
has patent palm grip.

 No. =100=.                                   Per set of
                                             four gloves,        =$6.00=


                    The Spalding 5–oz. Boxing Gloves

                        None Better at Any Price

[Illustration]

Made of special quality light tan-colored glove leather, very soft and
smooth. Plain laced wristband, patent palm lacing and patent palm grip.
An ideal glove for limited round contests.

 No. =105=.                                   Per set of
                                             four gloves,        =$7.00=

                  *       *       *       *       *

 =EACH SET OF BOXING GLOVES CONSISTS OF FOUR GLOVES, MATED IN TWO PAIRS=




                         Spalding Boxing Gloves


 No. =11=.     Corbett pattern, large 7–oz.
                 glove, best quality brown
                 glove leather, padded with
                 best curled hair, patent
                 palm lacing, padded
                 wristband, patent palm
                 grip. Substantially made     Set of four
                 throughout for hard usage.     gloves,          =$5.00=
 No. =9=.      Regulation 5–oz. glove,        Set of four
                 otherwise same as No. 11.      gloves,          =$5.00=
 No. =14=.     Regulation 5–oz. glove, dark
                 wine color, padded
                 wristband, patent palm
                 lacing and palm grip. Much   Set of four
                 improved.                      gloves,          =$4.00=
 No. =15=.     Corbett pattern, olive tanned
                 leather, well padded with
                 hair, padded wristband,
                 patent palm lacing, patent   Set of four
                 palm grip.                     gloves,          =$4.00=
 No. =17=.     Corbett pattern, craven tan
                 leather, well padded with
                 hair, patent palm lacing,
                 patent palm grip, padded     Set of four
                 wristband.                     gloves,          =$4.00=

[Illustration: _Above illustrates the patent palm lacing and patent palm
grip referred to in descriptions of Spalding boxing gloves. With these
improvements we believe our line is absolutely the finest on the market.
The patent palm lacing, insuring a snug fit at all times, is a very
valuable feature, and the patent palm grip we know, will be appreciated
by those who want gloves that are up-to-date in every particular._]

 No. =19=.     Corbett pattern, craven tan
                 leather, well padded with
                 hair, patent palm grip and   Set of four
                 patent palm lacing.            gloves,          =$3.50=
 No. =21=.     Corbett pattern, dark wine
                 color leather. Well padded
                 with hair and patent palm    Set of four
                 lacing.                        gloves,          =$3.00=
 No. =23=.     Regular pattern, fine quality
                 brown tanned leather. A
                 very well made glove. Hair
                 padded and patent palm       Set of four
                 lacing.                        gloves,          =$2.00=
 No. =24=.     Regular pattern, craven tan
                 leather, hair padded,
                 elastic wristband.              Set.            =$1.50=

[Illustration: No. 11. Corbett Pattern]

[Illustration: No. 23. Regular Pattern]

                  *       *       *       *       *


                     SPALDING YOUTHS’ BOXING GLOVES

                      All Styles, Padded with Hair

[Illustration: No. 45 Corbett Pattern]

[Illustration: No. 25 Regular Pattern]

Spalding Youths’ Boxing Gloves are made in exactly the same manner and
of the same material as the full size gloves of our manufacture and are
warranted to give satisfaction.

 No. =45=.     Youths’ Championship Glove,
                 Corbett pattern, best
                 quality brown glove
                 leather, extra well
                 finished and double
                 stitched, patent palm
                 lacing and patent palm       Set of four
                 grip.                          gloves,          =$3.50=
 No. =40=.     Youths’ size, Corbett
                 pattern, soft craven tan
                 leather, well padded,        Set of four
                 patent palm lacing.            gloves,          =$2.50=
 No. =25=.     Youths’ size, regular
                 pattern, soft tanned
                 leather, patent palm         Set of four
                 lacing.                        gloves,          =$1.50=




                       THE SPALDING STRIKING BAGS


 THE BLADDERS USED IN ALL OUR STRIKING BAGS ARE MADE OF PURE PARA RUBBER
                  (NO COMPOSITION) AND FULLY GUARANTEED

[Illustration: No. G]

[Illustration: No. 19]

All our single end bags except No. G are made with solid leather top,
through center of which rope passes, making them the most certain in
action of any. Laces on side at top, so that the bladder can be inflated
without interfering with rope. Each bag is most carefully inspected and
then packed complete in box with bladder, lace and rope.

 No. =G=.      This is a heavy durable
                 Gymnasium Bag suitable for
                 all around exercise work
                 and the strongest bag made.
                 The cover is of heavy
                 English grain leather, same
                 as used in our best grade
                 foot balls and basket balls
                 and made in the same way.
                 It will outlast two or
                 three bags of any other
                 make. With loop top.            Each,           =$8.00=
 No. =19=.     Made of highest quality Patna
                 kid, the lightest and
                 strongest of leather. Sewed
                 with linen thread, double
                 stitched and red welted
                 seams. Especially suited
                 for exhibition work, and a
                 very fast bag.                  Each,           =$7.00=
 No. =19S=.    Same material as No. 19, but
                 furnished with special
                 light bladder and weighs
                 only 7 ounces complete. The
                 fastest bag made, but very
                 strong and durable.             Each,           =$7.00=
 No. =20=.     Made of finest selected
                 calfskin, double stitched,
                 red welted seams and
                 reinforced throughout. Very
                 fast and a durable bag for
                 all around use.                 Each,           =$7.00=
 No. =18=.     The “Fitzsimmons Special.”
                 Made of finest selected
                 olive Napa tanned leather,
                 extra well made; double
                 stitched, red welted seams
                 and reinforced throughout.
                 For training purposes
                 particularly this bag will
                 be found extremely
                 satisfactory in every
                 respect.                        Each,           =$5.00=
 No. =18S=.    Same as No. 18, but smaller
                 in size and lighter.
                 Intended for very speedy
                 work.                           Each,           =$5.00=
 No. =12=.     Olive tanned leather,
                 specially selected; double
                 stitched, red welted seams
                 and reinforced throughout.
                 Excellent for quick work.       Each,           =$4.00=
 No. =10=.     Specially tanned brown glove
                 leather; double stitched,
                 red welted seams and
                 reinforced throughout. Very
                 well made.                      Each,           =$3.50=
 No. =17=.     Made of fine craven tanned
                 leather, well finished;
                 double stitched, red welted
                 seams and reinforced
                 throughout. A good bag.         Each,           =$3.50=
 No. =16=.     Extra fine grain leather,
                 full size and lined
                 throughout.                     Each,           =$3.00=
 No. =15=.     Made of olive tanned leather,
                 full size and lined
                 throughout; red welted
                 seams.                          Each,           =$2.00=
 No. =14=.     Good quality colored
                 sheepskin; lined
                 throughout.                     Each,           =$1.50=


                     SPALDING STRIKING BAG SWIVELS

[Illustration: No. 8]

[Illustration: No. 11]

[Illustration: No. 9]

[Illustration: No. 12]

[Illustration: No. 8]

 No. =8=.      The simplest and most
                 effective ball bearing
                 swivel on the market. Rope
                 can be changed instantly
                 without interfering with
                 any other part of swivel.       Each,           =$1.50=
 No. =9=.      With removable socket for
                 quickly suspending or
                 removing bag without
                 readjusting.                    Each,            =50c.=
 No. =11=.     Swivel action, with bell cord
                 coupling and rope attached.
                 Fastens permanently to
                 disk; japan finish.             Each,            =50c.=
 No. =6=.      Japanned iron stem for use
                 with platform or disk.          Each,            =35c.=
 No. =12=.     Ball and socket action.
                 Fastens permanently to
                 disk; nickel-plated.            Each,            =25c.=




                      THE SPALDING DOUBLE END BAGS


 The Bladders used in all our Striking Bags are made of Pure Para Rubber
                (no composition) and are Fully Guaranteed

_We are making all our double end bags with one-piece top and
substantial leather hop. Really the strongest construction we know of.
The bottom loop is also very strongly made. Each bag complete in box,
with bladder, lace, rubber cord for floor, and rope for ceiling
attachment._

                  *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

 No. =7=.      Made of finest selected olive
                 Napa tanned leather and
                 workmanship of same quality
                 as in our “Fitzsimmons”
                 Special Bag No. 18. Double
                 stitched, red welted seams.
                 An extremely durable and
                 lively bag.                     Each,           =$5.50=
 No. =6=.      Fine olive tanned leather
                 cover, double stitched, red
                 welted seams. Extra well
                 made throughout.                Each,           =$5.00=
 No. =5=.      Regulation size, specially
                 tanned brown glove leather
                 cover, red welted seams,
                 double stitched and
                 substantially made
                 throughout.                     Each,           =$4.00=
 No. =4½=.     Regulation size, fine craven
                 tanned leather and red
                 welted seams. Well finished
                 throughout.                     Each,           =$3.75=
 No. =4=.      Regulation size, fine grain
                 leather cover and well made
                 throughout, double
                 stitched.                       Each,           =$3.50=
 No. =3=.      Regulation size, substantial
                 brown leather cover,
                 reinforced and double
                 stitched seams.                 Each,           =$2.50=
 No. =2½=.     Regulation size, good quality
                 dark olive tanned leather,
                 lined throughout, red
                 welted seams.                   Each.           =$2.00=
 No. =2=.      Medium size, good colored
                 sheepskin, lined
                 throughout.                     Each,           =$1.50=


                           Spalding Bladders

[Illustration: Style for Double End Bags and No. G]

[Illustration: Style for Single End Bags]

_It is well to specify when ordering extra bladders whether they are
required for single or double end bags, as we can furnish the two styles
in each grade._

 No. =B=.      With top stem, for Nos. 2, 2½
                 and 3.                          Each,            =75c.=
 No. =BS=.     With side stem, for Nos. 14
                 and 15.                         Each,            =75c.=
 No. =5=.      With top stem, for Nos. 4,
                 4½, 5 and 6.                    Each,           =$1.00=
 No. =5S=.     With side stem, for Nos. 10,
                 12, 16 and 17.                  Each,           =$1.00=
 No. =7S=.     With side stem, for Nos. 18,
                 18S, 19, 19S and 20.            Each,           =$1.20=
 No. =7=.      With top stem, for No. 7.                          =1.20=
 No. =OM=.     Top stem for No. G.                                =1.50=
 No. =OS=.     With top stem, heavy bladder,
                 best quality.                   Each,           =$1.25=
 No. =D=.      Elastic floor attachment for
                 all double end bags, best
                 quality cord.                   Each,            =30c.=
 No. =E=.      Elastic cord for double end
                 bags.                           Each,            =20c.=


                        Spalding Brass Inflaters

[Illustration]

 No. =2=.      Club size, cylinder 10 in.        Each,            =50c.=
 No. =3=.      Pocket size, cylinder 5½ in.        „              =25c.=

_All Rubber Bladders bearing our Trade-Mark are made of Pure Para Rubber
(no composition) and are guaranteed Perfect in Material and Workmanship.
Note special explanation of guarantee on tag attached to each bladder._

                  *       *       *       *       *


                      Spalding Striking Bag Mitts

 Will protect the hands and recommended for use with all Striking Bags.

[Illustration: No. 1]

[Illustration: No. 4]

[Illustration: No. 5]

 No. =1=.      Made of olive Napa Leather
                 and extra well padded;
                 ventilated palm and special
                 elastic wrist in glove.         Pair,           =$2.50=
 No. =2=.      Made of soft tanned leather,
                 properly shaped and padded;
                 substantially put together.     Pair,           =$1.50=
 No. =3=.      Made of soft tanned, leather,
                 padded and well made; also
                 made in ladies’ size.           Pair,            =75c.=
 No. =4=.      Knuckle mitt, well padded.          „              =50c.=
 No. =5=.      Knuckle mitt, well padded,          „              =25c.=




 Spalding “Official National League”<br> REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.<br> Ball


[Illustration: Horse Hide Cover Spalding No. 1 “Official National
League” Reg. U S Pat Off Spalding Official National League No. 1 Beware
of Counterfeits The Only Genuine Official League Ball, as adopted and
used by The National League of Professional Base Ball Clubs since 1878,
has this signature on each label A. G. Spalding. The Official Ball of
the Game Since Its Adoption By The National League in 1878]


            Official Ball of the Game for over Thirty Years

Adopted by the National League in 1878, and the only ball used in
Championship games since that time. Each ball wrapped in tinfoil, packed
in a separate box, and sealed in accordance with the latest League
regulations. Warranted to last a full game when used under ordinary
conditions.

                          =No. 1. Each, $1.25=

                                                     =Per Dozen, $15.00=




                          Durand-Steel Lockers


[Illustration: Some of the 6,000 Durand-Steel Lockers installed in the
Public Gymnasiums of Chicago. 12″ × 15″ × 42″, Double Tier.]

=Wooden lockers are objectionable=, because they attract vermin, absorb
odors, can be easily broken into, and are dangerous on account of fire.

=Lockers made from wire mesh or expanded metal afford little security=,
as they can be easily entered with wire cutters. Clothes placed in them
become covered with dust, and the lockers themselves present a poor
appearance, resembling animal cages.

=Durand-Steel Lockers= are made of finest grade furniture steel and are
finished with gloss black, furnace-baked japan (400°), comparable to
that used on hospital ware, which will never flake off nor require
refinishing, as do paints and enamels.

[Illustration: Six Lockers in Double Tier]

[Illustration: Three Lockers in Single Tier]

=Durand-Steel Lockers= are usually built with doors perforated full
length in panel design with sides and backs solid. This prevents clothes
in one locker from coming in contact with wet garments in adjoining
lockers, while plenty of ventilation is secured by having the door
perforated its entire length, but, if the purchaser prefers, we
perforate the backs also.

=The cost of Durand-Steel Lockers is no more than that of first-class
wooden lockers=, and they last as long as the building, are sanitary,
secure, and, in addition, are fire-proof.

       THE FOLLOWING STANDARD SIZES ARE THOSE MOST COMMONLY USED:

                              DOUBLE TIER

                           12 × 12 × 36 Inch
                           15 × 15 × 36 Inch
                           12 × 12 × 42 Inch
                           15 × 15 × 42 Inch

                              SINGLE TIER

                           12 × 12 × 60 Inch
                           15 × 15 × 60 Inch
                           12 × 12 × 72 Inch
                           15 × 15 × 72 Inch

                      SPECIAL SIZES MADE TO ORDER.

We are handling lockers as a special contract business, and shipment
will in every case be made direct from the factory in Chicago. If you
will let us know the number of lockers, size and arrangement, we shall
be glad to take up, through correspondence, the matter of prices.

[Illustration: PROMPT ATTENTION GIVEN TO ANY COMMUNICATIONS ADDRESSED TO
US A. G. SPALDING & BROS. STORES IN ALL LARGE CITIES FOR COMPLETE LIST
OF STORES SEE INSIDE FRONT COVER OF THIS BOOK]

 _Prices in effect January 5, 1910. Subject to change without notice. For
             Canadian prices see special Canadian Catalogue._




The following selection of items from their latest Catalogue will give
an idea of the great variety of ATHLETIC GOODS manufactured by A. G.
SPALDING & BROS. SEND FOR A FREE COPY.


 Archery


 Bags—
   Bat
   Cricket
   Striking
   Uniform

 Balls—
   Base
   Basket
   Cricket
   Field Hockey
   Foot, College
   Foot, Rugby
   Foot, Soccer
   Golf
   Hand
   Indoor
   Medicine
   Playground
   Squash
   Tennis
   Volley
   Water Polo

 Bandages, Elastic

 Bathing Suits

 Bats—
   Base Ball
   Cricket

 Belts


 Caps—
   Base Ball
   University
   Water Polo

 Chest Weights

 Circle, Seven-Foot

 Coats, Base Ball

 Collars, Swimming

 Corks, Running

 Covers, Racket

 Cricket Goods

 Croquet Goods


 Discus, Olympic

 Dumb Bells


 Emblems

 Equestrian Polo

 Exerciser, Home


 Felt Letters

 Fencing Sticks

 Field Hockey

 Flags—
   College
   Foul, Base Ball
   Marking, Golf

 Foils, Fencing

 Foot Balls—
   Association
   College
   Rugby


 Glasses, Base Ball
   Sun
   Automobile

 Gloves—
   Base Ball
   Boxing
   Cricket
   Fencing
   Foot Ball
   Golf
   Handball
   Hockey, Ice

 Glove Softener

 Goals—
   Basket Ball
   Foot Ball
   Hockey, Ice

 Golf Clubs

 Golf Counters

 Golfette

 Gymnasium, Home

 Gymnasium Board


 Hammers, Athletic

 Hats, University

 Head Harness

 Health Pull

 Hockey Sticks, Ice

 Hole Cutter, Golf

 Hole Rim, Golf

 Horse, Vaulting

 Hurdles, Safety

 Hurley Goods


 Indian Clubs


 Jackets—
   Fencing
   Foot Ball

 Javelins

 Jerseys


 Knee Protectors


 Lacrosse

 Lanes for Sprints

 Lawn Bowls

 Leg Guards—
   Base Ball
   Cricket
   Foot Ball


 Markers, Tennis

 Masks—
   Base Ball
   Fencing
   Nose

 Masseur, Abdominal

 Mattresses

 Megaphones

 Mitts—
   Base Ball
   Handball
   Striking Bag

 Moccasins


 Nets—
   Cricket
   Golf Driving
   Tennis
   Volley Ball

 Numbers, Competitors’


 Pads—
   Chamois, Fencing
   Foot Ball
   Sliding, Base Ball

 Pants—
   Base Ball
   Basket Ball
   Foot Ball, College
   Foot Ball, Rugby
   Hockey, Ice
   Running

 Pennants, College

 Plates—
   Base Ball Shoe
   Home
   Marking, Tennis
   Pitchers’ Box
   Pitchers’ Toe
   Teeing, Golf

 Platforms, Striking Bag

 Poles—
   Vaulting

 Polo, Roller. Goods

 Posts—
   Backstop, Tennis
   Lawn Tennis

 Protectors—
   Abdomen
   Base Ball Body
   Eye Glass

 Push Ball


 Quoits


 Rackets, Tennis

 Rings—
   Exercising
   Swinging

 Rowing Machines

 Roque


 Sacks, for Sack Racing

 Score Board, Golf

 Score Books

 Score Tablets, Base Ball

 Shirts—
   Athletic
   Base Ball

 Shoes—
   Base Ball
   Basket Ball
   Bowling
   Clog
   Cross Country
   Cricket
   Fencing
   Foot Ball, Association
   Foot Ball, College
   Foot Ball, Rugby
   Foot Ball, Soccer
   Golf
   Gymnasium
   Jumping
   Running
   Skating
   Squash
   Tennis

 Shot—
   Athletic
   Indoor
   Massage

 Skates—
   Ice
   Roller

 Skis

 Sleeve, Pitchers

 Snow Shoes

 Squash Goods

 Straps—
   Base Ball
   For Three-Legged
   Race
   Skate

 Stockings

 Striking Bags

 Suits—
   Basket Ball
   Gymnasium
   Gymnasium,
   Ladies’
   Running
   Soccer
   Swimming
   Union Foot Ball

 Supporters
   Ankle
   Wrist

 Suspensories

 Sweaters


 Tether Tennis

 Tights—
   Full
   Wrestling
   Knee

 Toboggans

 Trapeze

 Trunks—
   Bathing
   Velvet
   Worsted


 Umpire Indicator

 Uniforms


 Wands, Calisthenic

 Watches, Stop

 Water Wings

 Weights, 56–lb.

 Whitely Exercisers

 Wrestling Equipment




                            Standard Policy


A Standard Quality must be inseparably linked to a Standard Policy.

Without a definite and Standard Mercantile Policy, it is impossible for
a manufacturer to long maintain a Standard Quality.

To market his goods through the jobber, a manufacturer must provide a
profit for the jobber as well as the retail dealer. To meet these
conditions of Dual Profits, the manufacturer is obliged to set a
proportionately high list price on his goods to the consumer.

To enable the glib salesman, when booking his orders, to figure out
attractive profits to both the jobber and retailer, these high list
prices are absolutely essential; but their real purpose will have been
served when the manufacturer has secured his order from the jobber, and
the jobber has secured his order from the retailer.

However, these deceptive high list prices are not fair to the consumer,
who does not, and, in reality, is not ever expected to pay these fancy
list prices.

When the season opens for the sale of such goods, with their misleading
but alluring high list prices, the retailer begins to realize his
responsibilities, and grapples with the situation as best he can, by
offering “special discounts,” which vary with local trade conditions.

Under this system of merchandising, the profits to both the manufacturer
and the jobber are assured; but as there is no stability maintained in
the prices to the consumer, the keen competition amongst the local
dealers invariably leads to a demoralized cutting of prices by which the
profits of the retailer are practically eliminated.

This demoralization always reacts on the manufacturer. The jobber
insists on lower, and still lower, prices. The manufacturer, in his
turn, meets this demand for the lowering of prices by the only way open
to him, viz.: the cheapening and degrading of the quality of his
product.

The foregoing conditions became so intolerable that, ten years ago, in
1899, A. G. Spalding & Bros. determined to rectify this demoralization
in the Athletic Goods Trade, and inaugurated what has since become known
as “The Spalding Policy.”

The “Spalding Policy” eliminates the jobber entirely, so far as Spalding
Goods are concerned, and the retail dealer secures his supply of
Spalding Athletic Goods direct from the manufacturer under a restricted
retail price arrangement by which the retail dealer is assured a fair,
legitimate and certain profit on all Spalding Athletic Goods, and the
consumer is assured a Standard Quality and is protected from imposition.

The “Spalding Policy” is decidedly for the interest and protection of
the users of Athletic Goods, and acts in two ways:

  FIRST—The user is assured of genuine Official Standard Athletic Goods,
    and the same fixed prices to everybody.

  SECOND—As manufacturers, we can proceed with confidence in purchasing
    at the proper time, the very best raw materials required in the
    manufacture of our various goods, well ahead of their respective
    seasons, and this enables us to provide the necessary quantity and
    absolutely maintain the Spalding Standard of Quality.

All retail dealers handling Spalding Athletic Goods are required to
supply consumers at our regular printed catalogue prices—neither more
nor less—the same prices that similar goods are sold for in our New
York, Chicago and other stores.

All Spalding dealers, as well as users of Spalding Athletic Goods, are
treated exactly alike, and no special rebates or discriminations are
allowed to anyone.

Positively, nobody, not even officers, managers, salesmen or other
employes of A. G. Spalding & Bros., or any of their relatives or
personal friends, can buy Spalding Athletic Goods at a discount from the
regular catalogue prices.

This, briefly, is the “Spalding Policy,” which has already been in
successful operation for the past ten years, and will be indefinitely
continued.

In other words, “The Spalding Policy” is a “square deal” for everybody.

                                                  A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

[Illustration: By A. G. Spalding. PRESIDENT.]




                            Standard Quality


An article that is universally given the appellation “=Standard=” is
thereby conceded to be the Criterion, to which are compared all other
things of a similar nature. For instance, the Gold Dollar of the United
States is the Standard unit of currency, because it must legally contain
a specific proportion of pure gold, and the fact of its being Genuine is
=guaranteed= by the Government Stamp thereon. As a protection to the
users of this currency against counterfeiting and other tricks,
considerable money is expended in maintaining a Secret Service Bureau of
Experts. Under the law, citizen manufacturers must depend to a great
extent upon Trade-Marks and similar devices to protect themselves
against counterfeit products—without the aid of “Government Detectives”
or “Public Opinion” to assist them.

Consequently the “Consumer’s Protection” against misrepresentation and
“inferior quality” rests entirely upon the integrity and responsibility
of the “Manufacturer.”

A. G. Spalding & Bros. have, by their rigorous attention to “Quality,”
for thirty-three years, caused their Trade-Mark to become known
throughout the world as a Guarantee of Quality as dependable in their
field as the U. S. Currency is in its field.

The necessity of upholding the guarantee of the Spalding Trade-Mark and
maintaining the Standard Quality of their Athletic Goods, is, therefore,
as obvious as is the necessity of the Government in maintaining a
Standard Currency.

Thus each consumer is not only insuring himself but also protecting
other consumers when he assists a Reliable Manufacturer in upholding his
Trade-Mark and all that it stands for. Therefore, we urge all users of
our Athletic Goods to assist us in maintaining the Spalding Standard of
Excellence, by insisting that our Trade-Mark be plainly stamped on all
athletic goods which they buy, because without this precaution our best
efforts towards maintaining Standard Quality and preventing fraudulent
substitution will be ineffectual.

Manufacturers of Standard Articles invariably suffer the reputation of
being high-priced, and this sentiment is fostered and emphasized by
makers of “inferior goods,” with whom low prices are the main
consideration.

A manufacturer of recognized Standard Goods, with a reputation to uphold
and a guarantee to protect, must necessarily have higher prices than a
manufacturer of cheap goods, whose idea of and basis for a claim for
Standard Quality depends principally upon the eloquence of the salesman.

We know from experience that there is no quicksand more unstable than
poverty in quality—and we avoid this quicksand by Standard Quality.

[Illustration: A. G. Spalding & Bros.]

[Illustration: back cover]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected typographical errors and variations in spelling.
 2. Archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings retained as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.





End of Project Gutenberg's Tumbling for Amateurs, by James T. Gwathmey

